the husband and wife duo, the founders
of Poppy, in which they sold for $2
billion with a Ve to PepsiCo. People
like to say, "Don't do business with
friends or family. You guys did this
business while you were married." How
has that dynamic been?
>> He's like, "We just bought a house.
You're pregnant." And I was like, "We're
going all in."
>> The money hit in May, and we actually
had like our biggest fight that we had
ever had. If you don't have the ability
to trust one another, nothing really
works.
>> I think it's incredible that you guys
just left everything. You were making
over $1,000 a day in the oil industry,
and you're like, "You know what? I'm
going to go all in on my own product.
>> We invested about $90,000 year one.
Maxed out our credit card, sold both of
our cars to be able to buy more bottles
to open our own manufacturing facility.
>> When you can't afford your mortgage, you
better love what you're doing. Allison
Steven, if all of us in this room were
to pass away tomorrow and you could
leave one more message with the younger
generation, what would that be?
What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh.
And we have not one but two incredible
guests for you all today. The husband
and wife duo, the founders of Poppy, in
which they sold for $2 billion with a B
to PepsiCo. In what year?
>> Just last year, one year ago this month.
>> Honestly, to the day.
>> Literally to the day.
>> Actually, how did that exit feel? First
of all, that's that's what I want to
first talk about. You you guys put
blood, sweat, and tears into building
this company. You know, how did how did
that feel? You know, the number one
feeling that I personally had when we
sold the company was freedom. Freedom
and wealth, freedom to do whatever we
wanted to do. And I'll be honest,
freedom is actually a very overwhelming
feeling, right? Because with freedom, is
there really purpose? And so, I feel
like we took really the last year post
exit to find what is that next purpose
and like kind of look inward and work
through that. So I think people are like
you sell your company like this is
insane, incredible, but with that comes
so many more decisions in life.
>> Yeah, I would say uh it didn't feel like
I expected it it was going to feel. But
I would say that the feeling got better
over time. Um we actually gotten our
biggest like cuz we we signed to close
to sell the business like a year ago
honestly to the day I think and then it
took about 2 months for the FTC to like
review make sure that there was nothing
going on. But the money hit in May and
we actually had like our biggest fight
that we had ever had and it was like
literally over over nothing. But I think
>> it's not taking time to celebrate it
honestly cuz we're like let's move our
meetings. Let's go to lunch. Let's go
celebrate this the money hitting the
bank cuz let's be real that's honestly
more exciting for us personally is to
like have the money hit the bank versus
just signing the paperwork. And um we
fought and we was like why didn't you
move your meetings? Why didn't I? And so
it's so funny cuz people think you're
going to have this exit and have all of
this wealth and then like your life will
change. Well, it didn't really change.
We still had meetings. Our kids were
still screaming like trying to get them
off to school. And so it's this this
feeling that I feel like a lot of exited
founders don't talk about. But now that
the year has settled, we feel a lot
different. But that's just those raw
emotions that you have at the beginning.
>> Yeah. You still put your pants on one
leg at a time, you know. Uh but yeah, I
would I would agree like once you sort
of go through the emotion the emotional
sort of roller coaster that it is and
finding what your purpose is. I think
it's it's it is there's like this
freedom this is this weight that's
lifted off your off of your shoulders.
And I think you just get to look at it
to say, "Hey, I can do whatever I want
right now." And a lot of that for us,
it's like going back to work. It's like
finding a new project that we can pour
ourselves into that we're super super
passionate about. But like we get to do
it on our own terms this time, who we
want, when we want, uh and with whom we
want. So
>> when you first started the company, you
guys didn't start in some fancy factory.
You guys started out of a kitchen.
>> When the company first started, which
one of you secretly believed that this
thing was going to become a billion
dollar company, and which one of you
thought that the other person was a
little crazy?
>> You know, we've always both been very
entrepreneurial, and I think that was
something that was just really
attractive to each other and kind of
like brought us together is that
entrepreneurial spirit. But I'm
definitely the crazy one
>> in in most of the just life decisions.
I'm always like jumping off the cliff
and he's building the business plan and
trying to catch me as I'm jumping off
the next cliff. And um I really think
that that combination set us up for a
lot of success because I just I mean
before I met him I was making so much
money in oil and gas research. I mean we
were making upwards of $1,000 a day and
I didn't even have a savings account. I
was spending it left and right, having
fun, traveling, doing all the things.
He's like, "Hey, maybe we should, you
know, think about like retirement
someday and all these things." So, it's
always been just like that combination
of where I'm like, "No, let's go have
fun." He's like, "Well, let's have a
plan." And so, for me, I think I love
that about having a founder and I, you
know, even if it's not husband and wife
duo, having that person to balance you
out in business, I think, is really
important cuz the high highs are going
to be higher and the low lows, you
actually have someone there with you,
which is really nice. Um, but I started
the company because I had just some
health problems, girl problems, like my
tummy always hurt, my skin was a mess.
started drinking apple cider vinegar,
hated the taste, uh wanted to figure out
a way to make it taste good. And so it
was a total passion project experiment
in my kitchen. And he just like trusted
me through that process. I mean, it
tasted horrible at the beginning.
>> It was awful. Like here's what I would
say is she's she has been the crazy one
that's like, "Hey, I've got this idea. I
don't know if it's going to work or not,
but I have this idea I'm excited about.
We're going to go do it."
>> And when she has that idea, do you just
let her run with it? You just kind of
let her go or
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. like to like to an
extent, right? Like I'm not going to It
took me probably about a month and a
half to like really get behind it. So,
but it but it wasn't like, "Hey babes,
don't don't do this." It was like, "Hey,
like take your time, whatever. We can
spend some money. Like, let's start
figuring it out." But before we really
started to put our life savings into it
and really like dedicate and say, "Hey,
this is what we're doing." It probably
took me six weeks, 8 weeks maybe,
>> which is honestly pretty quick for two
people to start a business, quit their
entire jobs, put their life savings into
it, right? A lot of people will do that
for two years trying to make it work.
Yeah. So I think that is why we are
built a little bit different because we
were just so passionate went all in day
one.
>> And I think that's really hard for
entrepreneurs to do. We invested about
$90,000
year one. Maxed out our credit cards,
sold both of our cars to be able to buy
more bottles to open our own
manufacturing facility. Like we believed
that this was the future of soda. And I
think that belief took us, you know,
through the hard times.
>> I think it's incredible that you guys
just left everything. You, like you guys
said, you were making over $1,000 a day
in the oil industry and you're like,
look, you know what? I'm going to go all
in on my own product. How did you get
proof of concept, though? Because it's
one thing to solve a personal problem,
but it's another thing to be like, okay,
this is not only a problem that I'm
solving for me, but I'm solving for
others as well. How did you go about
validating that idea in the early
stages? I mean it was it was really
organic initially and we we were like
really iterative with the with the
product. Uh but at first it was friends
and family but like like can you really
trust feedback from your friends and
family like oh my gosh this is so great
I love it. Uh so then we took it to the
to the farmers market in Dallas. Uh that
was really where we launched the product
at first and and then you get like real
consumers like hey like you know do you
like this or not? When we first started
it it had so much apple cider vinegar in
it.
>> It was not good.
>> And I just remember cuz it was it was
her product. It was her story. the
product needed a lot of work. And I knew
that because I would I would sample it
to someone and this is like a this is
like a soda replacement, right? This is
a better for you soda. And I'd be like,
"Here, sample this." And they'd take a
shot
and they would pause and they'd be like,
"Am I supposed to drink that whole
bottle?" And I was like, "Yeah, it's
just like a soda, right?" And they're
like, "No,
>> not really." Um, so it took a little bit
to get proof of concept and like cater
to like what consumers actually wanted.
But the the great thing for us was is
our third week at the Dallas farmers
market. We had a pretty cool booth
compared to like everything else that
was there. We had a bunch of people
around. The energy was super high.
People were loving the product. And a
local forager from Whole Foods actually
approached our booth. She saw like
everything that was going on. Was like,
I have to check this out. So, she came
up. I was working with somebody. She
went up to Allison in Incognito, tried
the product. Allison told the story and
she's like, I'm obsessed with what you
guys are doing. like you guys you guys I
don't really do this. I'm not I'm here
to see my family. I'm not here for work,
but here's my card. You guys need to be
in Whole Foods. At
>> at what point in the the journey from
when you guys started to then at what
point was that for you guys?
>> That was our third week at the farmers
market and we had probably been working
maybe just a couple months prior like in
our kitchen like trying to figure it
out.
>> Say like three or four months like you
know like you're just like tinking
around and there's like the mason jars
and stuff like that. So, this was the
first time we kind of went out to sell
the product, but it was still kind of a
hobby cuz I just got pregnant. I was
about 3 months pregnant. I didn't want
to go back on the road and do oil and
gas. We just bought a house. And I
remember that moment when I got the
card, I I was like, "This is Whole
Foods. We're doing this." And he's like,
"We just bought a house. You're
pregnant." And I was like, "We're going
all in." And it was nice to have that
confirmation kind of early, but I think
like the consumer took longer for them
to kind of get it. And I think a lot of
times listening to your consumer is a
little bit hard for people when you
first start a company. I remember to
your point, they would kind of try the
product, they would look at me with
confusion. And when it's your idea,
confusion feels a lot like failure,
right? Where you're just like, why why
don't you get this like I get this? I
just it just like didn't get I rejection
sucks, right? But through that
rejection, I refined how I was talking
to the consumer. So I went from talking
about this is an apple cider vinegar
drink to we are revolutionizing soda for
the next generation. That changes
everything, right? And so through that
process, it's kind of like that
embarrassing moment where you're just
like standing there feeling dumb. Then
comes refinement. Then comes um clarity.
Then comes the confidence of learning.
And that's by listening to your consumer
over and over again, which that can take
a lot of time. That doesn't happen
really overnight.
>> The beolution.
>> The bevolution. I love that.
>> There we go. At what point did you
realize that it was time to go and take
on some capital and and how did Shark
Tank come about? Because that was
obviously you got a massive kind of
initial investment on there. What point
did you guys kind of have the
realization that it's like, hey, we
could think way bigger and not just try
to bootstrap this and do everything
ourselves, but rather let's go seek some
outside capital. We were about $500,000
in revenue and we had someone come to us
and offer us around $200,000 to invest
into our company. But with that money
came zero resources, zero network. He
was just a guy that liked our product.
And we were looking at this seriously
cuz at that point we were growing. We
were in Whole Foods. We had our own
manufacturing facility. But he couldn't
really bring any resources to the table.
And I think that's really important.
It's the old saying, don't take dumb
money. And so I saw online that Shark
Tank was coming to town. And so we
really went and stood in line for like 8
hours and pitched our hearts out and
went through that whole process. And it
took us about 6 months to go through
from the Shark Tank like pitching to
actually being on the show and getting a
deal. I was 9 months pregnant and I was
like, I hope this eventually happens. I
don't want to have the baby. And like it
was like this whole thing. And um we
ended up securing a deal. And you know,
I look back and I've said this before
where I don't know if we wouldn't have
gotten that deal if we'd still be in
business, right? Because we were so
strapped for cash. It wasn't that we
didn't have a good product. It's just
it's really easy to fail if you're not
if you don't have a a partner that has
money.
>> I think we we could have kept going, but
it would have been different. It would
have been another couple years of slog.
And who knows if if we would have made
it or not. Um, I think like one of the
good things that we had about starting
the business is we didn't know anything.
Uh, knowing what we know now and
starting a beverage business, it looks a
lot different. It's like most beverage
businesses raise hundreds of millions of
dollars of capital. Very few of them
ever survive and sort of break through
mainstream and have it escape velocity
and become household brands. So, it it
was really critical that we had a
partner that was strategic, that had
done it before, had access to to to
great people. uh ultimately had much
deeper pockets than the initial
investment on Shark Tank. Um so yeah, I
think it was I think it was worthwhile
for sure.
>> So you guys you've been on both sides of
the table at Shark Tank. You've been on
the pitching side and you've been on the
investing side.
>> What was the process from the pitching
standpoint? Like what was that process
after the after you guys secured a deal
versus like actually being a shark like
on the show? Like what does that process
actually look like? You know, there's
two things on both sides that a reality
is that due diligence takes a long time.
So, when we got our deal, it took about
6 months for Rohan Ozas, who we got our
deal with, the shark, to go through the
business and actually make sure we were
a legit business and that we weren't
lying on the show to actually closing
and funding. And that took about 6
months. And it's the same thing when I
was a shark this season is that due
diligence can take a lot of time. And
you discover is that product ownable? is
they are they saying what they believe
they're saying? Is this going to be a
partner I want to get into business
with? Because at the end of the day,
getting in business with someone is a
marriage.
>> Like it's you're it's almost like harder
than a marriage. I'll be honest, because
at least with marriage, you've like
signed up before you get in business and
you like like the person.
>> Um you have to like grow to like the
person and trust and there's so much
that comes with that. And so I love that
I was able to be on both sides because I
think it made me a better investor. I
have more empathy for that entrepreneur
because I stood right where they stood.
I also did not want to take investment
unless I could add value. I didn't want
to just take these people's like 10 20
30% of their business if I could not add
value back. So I the respect that I have
for them I think was awesome. And then
something I loved about the show is they
want entrepreneurs to be successful and
get deals. So the producers in the back
end are madly working for months trying
to match people up correctly even though
you don't know as an entrepreneur or as
a judge whether or not who that business
person is. So I think the show is
beautiful. It's like the most American
dream type show out there. I been
running 17 years. So it was cool to kind
of experience both sides.
>> You had brought up that entrepreneurship
is like a marriage. And when I look at
you guys, I see like almost like a
unicorn. Uh, and when I look at even
like entrepreneurship teams that are
like most people like to say don't do
business with friends or family.
>> Um, it's just not like a great great
thing to get into. Like I look at
entrepreneurship teams like even
ourselves for for instance like brothers
and friend as like it's like there's so
few pairings that that actually works.
Like some there sometimes there could be
a falling out. Sometimes there could be
it's one thing to like be friends or
like be siblings and then at the end of
the day you go back to your own
apartments or where wherever you live
and you can kind of take a break from
that, but you guys did this business
while you were married.
>> Mhm.
>> How has that dynamic been? I know that
you know Allison says that she kind of
has the crazy drive and then Stephen
you're kind of able to reel her in, but
how has that been for you guys being
like married and building this company
into what it was? It's a lot, but I
think like the biggest thing is uh is
that a relationship is built on trust
and commitment. And I think that if you
don't have the ability to trust one
another uh to do what they say they're
going to do, and if and if vice versa,
if I don't show up and do what I say I'm
going to do, like nothing really works.
Um I also like what you said as well.
I'll talk about commitment, too, but
like a business relationship and a
marriage, they all like each party has
to be committed 100%. They can't be
50/50. if you think about it, like 50/50
is like one foot in, one foot out. Um,
you know, because inevitably one or both
of you are going to be falling short on
any given day. And so, you've got to be
100% committed. But I also think it's
like um you've got to be able to engage
in healthy conflict like you were
saying. Like you you like just because
your brothers or your husband and wife
doesn't mean that everything's always
perfect. Like you need to be willing to
have those tough conversations. like
like there was a lot of tough
conversations both ways where I didn't
want to hear it or she didn't want to
hear it, but we we had those
conversations and at the end of the day
like we had to ultimately trust one
another that it was that we were coming
in and have these conversations with
with positive intent and in wanting to
make things better, not make them worse.
I love that you said it's a unicorn
because people always ask us who we look
up to and we've really struggled finding
a husband and wife couple that have had
an exit that are not divorced
>> or on their way to being divorced
>> or on their way. And it's so funny like
we've really racked our brains like it's
really hard to like think about it.
Maybe like Zuck is still married to his
wife, right? But it's really hard if you
think about it to go through like crazy
wealth, crazy change, so public. Like
everybody knows we sold our company for
$2 billion and to then make sure we
still have values for our kids and our
family at home. Like I'm like I think
it's kind of cool that we can be that
inspiration for others.
>> Mhm.
>> In the first 5 years, you guys became
the fastest growing beverage company in
the entire world. You scale out to what
was it? $500 million
>> in four and a half years. Yes.
>> Which is incredible. Could you explain
what was that rocket field that enabled
you to grow significantly that quickly?
Because I mean a lot of people and and
maybe I want to ask it this way is you
hear a lot of people talk about business
is a long game like don't expect to make
any money the first 3 to 5 years. Do you
agree with that approach like would you
instill in young founders to have that
patience or do you think that it is hey
how do you how can you grow as quickly
and fastly as you know as possible? I
think it's important to know that every
business is different and you got to
figure out what works for your business
and not try to just do what everybody
else has done or try to follow a
playbook. I think that's what we did
really good at Poppy is we created our
own playbook. We were one of the first
brands to get online on Tik Tok to
really connect with our community. We
had an incredible product
>> and and also before you said that you
had members on your board that were
telling you not to post on Tik Tok.
>> Correct. Yeah. I remember when Tik Tok
first came out. We we launched Pop Poppy
March 3rd, 2020. They were like,
"Allison, that is just for Tik Tockers
and dancing people and people making
recipe videos." And I was like, "Look,
I'll do all of that." So, I was dancing.
I was making taco recipe videos. I was
doing transitions with hoodies and
acting like a total fool, putting my
kids in it. Steven was in it, right?
>> And I remember them being like, "This is
crazy. You're doing this. Why? Why?
Instagram is where it's at." And I was
like, there's this wild wild west. And
what I love about the two platforms,
Instagram's like your website, but Tik
Tok's really a discover platform, right,
for brand awareness. That
>> that's great. I like that a lot.
>> Yeah. And so it's like where people are
going to discover you. It's not people
following you. And so I was like, "Ah,
this is where we're going to really
grow." And I remember I sat down one
night, I told our founding story. I had
just gotten out of the shower. My hair
was wet. I was on the couch in my PJs.
>> And it went absolutely viral. It has
over 250 million views. We sold out
every shelf, every grocery store. We did
$100,000. We're sleeping on Amazon. And
I just I it was it finally opened
everyone's eyes. They're like, "Oh, we
see this." And we ended up moving all of
our paid over to the platform. It
completely changed the whole trajectory
of our business.
>> And that was us writing our own
playbook, right? And we were able to
build a community that built crazy brand
loyalty.
>> And we were authentic. We were raw. We
weren't high gloss. Like we were messy.
we were awkward and people related to
that.
>> So that authenticity was important.
>> Yeah. And and we had a good product and
we had a good brand, right? I think it's
a combination. But also something that
was really incredible was our team
>> because I think a lot of entrepreneurs
let their ego get in the way of growth
and they won't bring on team early
enough. And so for us it was bringing on
the right people early on to build it
that had the experience that we didn't.
So for example, I was running our entire
marketing team. Um, it got time to where
we're like needing to buy Super Bowl ads
and stuff. And I was like, I've never
done that. We need help. So, we brought
in a CMO. He took over all of the
traditional media, retail, planning, all
that, and allowed me to move over and
run the brand and the creative, and it
really let me shine at the end of the
day.
>> Were there any hires that you all made
that you regret looking back at? I mean
maybe that you learned like a valuable
lesson from because I think that I know
even within our organization of 60 like
we've had a couple hires where we've
been like lesson learned there that this
is what even though they may come off as
this great person. Did you ever run into
that at any point in time where you kind
of made a mistake in the hiring process
and maybe any lessons that you took from
that?
>> Yeah. So yeah, so many
>> culture is huge.
>> Yeah, culture is huge. I feel like like
friends, people that you hire, we tend
to hire people that are kind of like us.
Uh or at least like are
relatable. Yeah. Like personalitywise
for sure. And I would say like that's a
big watch out. They don't have to be
like you or or have the same
personality. They have to have like the
same values that contribute to what the
overall culture is. Um and so I think
like early on we were hiring for
personality. We wanted someone that had
that grit, that startup mentality, the
ability to run fast. uh but we weren't
necessarily solving for what the true
gaps in the organization were. And so I
think that that's that was a really big
lesson for us is for me I we I hired
this SVP of ops and we're actually
really good friends now which is which
is really interesting but I did I didn't
want to hire the guy cuz he was kind of
drier. He was a little quieter. He was
he almost seemed a bit standoffish and I
I tell this to his face anyways but he
had a great skill set that that we
needed and so I decided okay let's let's
let's bring him in. And it ended up
being the right the right move. And it
just sort of like shined a light on all
of the people that I hired because they
had that grit and that startup mentality
uh but not necessarily the right skill
set. All of this comes down to at the
end of the day like it does they don't
have to be the same person or you don't
have to like them but they have to have
the same values because if they don't
and you have a toxic culture like one
bad apple really can spoil the bunch and
it's crazy even if that person is
amazing at what they do. They're
strategic. They hustle. They get it
done. They're solving problems in the
organization. If people don't like
working with them, like you got a much
bigger problem.
>> Fire them quickly.
>> Yeah. You got a much bigger problem.
>> Get them out of there.
>> We We actually We have a rule where we
don't we do not hire friends and family
cuz
>> Except for you guys.
>> Except for us.
each other each other.
>> And the reason being is because like
when you get into business with with
friends and family, it just makes it
awkward and like it makes it harder to
do that exact same thing that you said,
which is to fire people quickly cuz
you're like, you know what, I really
like this person. I want to give them
another chance. I swear they're going to
change. But they just don't. Okay. Often
times people show their true colors. I'd
say within the first two weeks of them
working within the organization.
>> True. And uh I want to go back to it's
not necessarily about this person being
like me or whether I like them on the
front end, but it's they have a
strategic skill set.
>> And you said early on that you had
someone that was willing to give you
guys money, $200,000, and you guys said,
"You know what?
>> This would be amazing, but they're just
not the right fit." And when you went on
to Shark Tank, you did you did get that
strategic partner. And your brand wasn't
originally called Poppy. This was this
was someone who was a master in branding
and uh and and attention. So I'm I'm
kind of curious how did that shift kind
of happen of like look we're actually go
all in on brand and kind of having
someone else you know like help shift
the direction.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah. So after getting a deal on Shark
Tank, we took nine months off the
business to work on the rebrand. And our
Shark basically said to us, "We love
your founding story. Your liquid is
fire, but your branding is shit." And it
makes
>> What was the original name? It was
called Mother Beverage.
>> Mother Beverage.
>> And it makes sense. We were a twoperson
show. We were spending most of our time
manufacturing. We were not spending any
time on the brand or marketing. And nor
did we have the capital to do it or the
resources. So we get a deal and really
it was four of us for 9 months working
on this rebrand. And it was such a fun
process because that was that piece
where we went from the apple cider
vinegar to we are soda for the next
generation.
And with that, we decided colored cans
because if you are screaming soda, you
have to be like color, vibrant, juicy,
tasty, right? You don't want to just be
like a white label like clean girl
aesthetic that does not scream soda.
>> We went in a 12 oz can because we were
going after big soda. We wanted to mimic
them, right? And that and then we were
just intentional with our branding. We
we did illustrated fruit versus real
fruit because nobody was doing that. So,
we wanted to be different than everyone.
And then we made multiple mocks of
different colors. We took it to the
shelf, put it on the shelf. So we did a
lot of work on who our consumer was. We
were going after millennial moms, Gen Z,
the Poppy girlies, quote unquote. So
then when we launched, we came really
strong out of the gate. We knew who we
are. Uh we knew who our consumer was,
but then as we grew, we changed, right?
And I think a lot of people don't want
to do the work to continue to change
over time. And I think a great story is
like we had our root beer. It was in
like a light colored packaging and the
liquid just wasn't good. And our
consumer was telling us it was bad.
They're like, "We hate it. Every Poppy
flavor is amazing, but their root beer
and talking about our competitors and
how much better it was."
>> And Stephen, it was like a personal
thing of his. He was like, "I have to
change this." So, we redid the
packaging. We did a full burn book on
how bad our old one was and we launched
our new one and made fun of ourselves.
And it worked out so well online because
everyone's like, "Oh my gosh, they
acknowledged this. they changed and came
out with something better versus like
trying to do the packaging with the new
burst and just being really cheoogy and
old school marketing. It was like we
acknowledged it and listen to our
consumer.
>> Something that I'm realizing and
learning about from you guys is that a
lot of founders let their ego get in the
way of their own success.
>> And throughout this process is you have
to take your ego out out of the picture.
>> And it's not for me, it's what the
consumer wants. I'm not serving this
brand for me. It's for them. And I just
think it's super interesting just
learning and listening from you guys is
just like it's always just taking the
feedback from the consumer and iterating
from there.
>> Yeah. Like I I like I always tell myself
and Allison and the team like let people
call your baby ugly.
>> Um cuz like you have to have that. You
have to have that. You can't just bury
your head in the sand. Like you you want
like whether it's product or whether
it's a process or whether it's a new
business vertical or strategy, whatever
it is. Like like you don't want to
surround yourself with people that are
just going to say yes, you're like the
greatest thing since sliced bread. Like
put people around you that are going to
call you on your stuff. Like you're your
product sucks honestly. Like I knew it
for 2 years. It was just a really hard
flavor to get. Um but like please give
me that feedback. That's that's how we
get better. And I think it's so it's so
critical and you know I could I could go
on and on but it's like being able to
check your ego at the door and being
able to take critical feedback and apply
that in a positive way really provides
opportunity for growth. Not easy but
very critical.
>> No, let's be real. We were not always
this way.
>> No.
>> Like when you first start a business you
don't you don't start a business to have
one people tell you what to do.
>> Correct.
>> Right. So second you take on money you
now have a board. Right. There's there's
so much that comes with that. And so
like check your ego, right? So it's like
a little bit of checking as you go. You
you start growing and bringing people on
and you become a leader. Check your ego,
right? You you start going out and
growing. It's like it's this thing. So
you're constantly kind of getting
checked along the way and you're almost
having to learn through it. So it's like
once those you don't just not have an
ego overnight. Like let's be real. And
so
>> you kind of have to have one to start a
business.
>> You kind of have to have one to start.
You kind of have to you have to be
delusional. So I think one another thing
entrepreneurs do not know how to be
leaders right you have to learn to be a
leader by leading by reading books by
getting mentors by listening to podcasts
you don't know how to be a leader until
you lead and so all of these things can
come through growth you and all can
coexist
>> earlier on the podcast you had mentioned
that you guys got in you became
entrepreneurs because you wanted that
freedom you wanted that freedom to be
able to live your life on your own terms
right but I feel that so many entrepreor
reneurs or people that discover they
have this great idea. Um, you know, even
speaking to entrepreneurs who might be,
you know, they're in the kitchen like
putting something together, they they
they're just like, "Oh, I'm going to
start this business and I'm going to
make all this money and I I'm going to
be able to do whatever I want." And
that's not really typically the case
>> when you get into it. Freedom is is not
the not the word that you maybe after
the exit, but like
>> if all goes well,
>> if all goes well,
>> which is so small for most people to
exit too. It's so rare,
>> but when you when you're in the like the
heart of the fire, there there's no you
are married to this business. And so I
wanted to ask like for that entrepreneur
out there that might have that idea in
their kitchen and they're like, "Oh, I
want to go all in on this." What for you
guys was like maybe um the most
unexpected thing when you guys were
building Poppy that came to you, whether
it's a story or just something for you
that just like, man, I I never expected
this. like I didn't realize that this is
>> um to where if I'm a founder it's just
like you know this is something you
should realize. I think like as an
entrepreneur a qu which you didn't ask
this a question I that that I get lately
is did you ever believe you'd be here
like of course like absolutely like as
an entrepreneur you think that
um but I think through the process you
don't realize how much work it is and
how much sacrifice it is but if you're
having fun it doesn't feel that way
>> so I almost look back on this none of
you guys are going to get it but it's
like child birth like you forget the bad
stuff and you only remember the good.
And I think that's kind of like
business, right? You you forget all the
all the bad if you're having fun. Now,
if you're an entrepreneur and you are
not having fun and it is all bad, you're
probably not doing what you should be
doing.
>> Wanting to be rich and have the freedom
that comes from being rich typically
isn't enough to get you through those
really tough times. Like like you say it
all the time. It's like I feel like such
an important element of success uh and
having fun along the journey is is
literally giving yourself the freedom to
to have fun. And I always say it's like
if you're doing something if you're
working on something that you hate, it's
called stress. But if you're working on
something you love, it's called passion.
And so like freedom freedom is
absolutely great. Being rich is
absolutely great. But it really is like
do you love what you're what you're
doing? Because when you can't afford
your mortgage or you're driving a POSOS
1995 Chevy pickup with no AC in Texas
summers where it's 105° like
>> which all of that happened to us.
>> You better love what you're doing. Uh if
you want to get to the other side,
>> you had said a quote when we were
outside in downtown Austin and I think
it would be extremely valuable for for
you to share with our audience. It has
to do with embarrassment. Could you
share the quote and then I'll have a
follow-up question on top of it?
>> Yeah. So embarrassment is the number one
explored emotion or no. Okay. So it's
embarrassment is the number one
unexplored emotion when it comes to
success. And so I think as entrepreneurs
you kind of have to go out there and
make a fool of yourself if you want to
be successful. And and I always say like
every single person you've looked up to
and admired has been embarrassed.
They've put themsel out there. Every
leader has wondered if they should be in
that room as a leader. every successful
speaker on stage once shook first,
right? And so I think that embarrassment
holds a lot of people back because
they're like, "Well, what if I say
something, they think I'm stupid?" You
actually have to be okay with looking
stupid for a while if you're an
entrepreneur.
>> And then you need to lean into it. So if
you have embarrassment, that's a green
light that you're probably growing as a
person. You're stretching yourself and
that you're on to something. So lean
into the embarrassment. Go make a fool
of yourself. if you want to be
successful and then don't forget that
feeling because the second you're stop
you stop having that feeling of
embarrassment means you're getting
comfortable and you're not pushing
yourself so don't get too comfortable
either
>> takes us to what he said about you have
to be comfortable not being comfortable
but the reason why I want to talk about
this for a second is I think it's
extremely important because I look at
you know with our channel and in our
content just as when you were in your
kitchen making Tik Toks you could have
easily been like oh what if people from
back home what if my friends and family
see this and they think I'm I'm cringey
for posting content, right? In our case,
we had posted three 400 times and had 50
followers. It's like I I can't even
think about
>> Explain the embarrassment you have when
you're walking up to strangers on the
street and them saying no to your face.
>> Like it's hurt. It hurts, right?
>> 100%. But but that's why I think it's so
important for an entrepreneur, you know,
or just somebody whether they want to be
a content creator, whatever it is that
they want to do to real like you just
you have to think about the bigger
picture, which is what you did. And so
did you like what because it's easy to
say like go be embarrassed, go feel that
emotion, right? Did you kind of have it
instilled in you that like you weren't
going to worry about what other people
thought about you? Did you at one point
worry about what other people thought or
was it just one thing where you were
like, you know what, in order for this
to work, I'm going to have to just kind
of do this. Like I wanted to kind of get
your your mindset because people will
always ask me about, you know, how do
you how do you deal with rejection,
right? But it's like I want to hear it
from you, your perspective on being able
to kind of go through that process. And
>> I think it's cuz I wanted to win and I
would do whatever it took to win. And by
winning it, it can equal success. It can
equal getting as many people as possible
to try Poppy. But I think with
embarrassment comes you're really
embarrassed at first. Then working
through that embarrassment comes
refining how that works and how those
feelings are. Then you kind of get this
clarity of like, wait, that I'm not so
embarrassed anymore. And then comes
confidence,
>> you know? I get this question all the
time. Why are you so confident? How are
you so confident, Alison? I was not
always confident. I became confident by
being awkward and failing and being
embarrassed over and over again until I
became confident in everything that you
do. And that's that's true for everybody
in anything, whether you're an
entrepreneur or not, is confidence is
not overnight. It's those awkward micro
moments that make you just like cringe a
little, your hot face, your stomach
drops, and then until you don't, right?
And so it's easier said than done, but
it's I wanted to win. I started a
company because I was obsessed with
getting as many people to try it as
possible. And being cringey was the cost
to that success.
>> I love that.
>> I have I have a question for you,
Stephen.
>> Is your wife is an avid marketer. She's
pioneering. She she's she she's she's
burning down
>> and you're you're over here in the
background, you know, putting the pieces
together and building the
infrastructure.
One of the things that I'm kind of just
curious for more of a personal question
for myself is is as you're scaling so
rapidly, you know, things are are
breaking,
>> uh, which is a good I'd honestly be more
concerned if things weren't breaking.
>> Mhm. But how do you go about like
setting the infrastructure up like like
in in the in the sense of like are you
putting what's your like when you're
scaling is your approach to hiring
hiring people before you necessarily
need them or are you hiring people after
the thing like this is this is broken
and I genuinely can't have this on my
plate anymore and I'm going put someone
in like so as you kind of progress
through your journey I'm just kind of
curious like how your philosophy on
hiring and putting people and systems in
place kind of changed
>> u versus like having things are broken
I'm placing someone in or I'm
anticipating ating the need and I'm
going to put someone in place.
>> Yeah, I've learned a lot through the
whole the whole journey and I'll I'll
touch on a couple pieces. Like when we
when we started Mother Beverage, it was
like we just started and had some
success. We're like, "Oh my gosh, now we
need now we need capital." Like let's
let's go out and raise some capital. Um
oh my gosh, this is broken or I can't do
this all myself. I don't have enough
hours. Let's go find somebody. And
Alison and I are actually working on a
new project and like we're doing it
completely different. It's like before
we even got started, it's like, okay,
how much capital do how much capital do
we think we're going to need to raise?
Like what does dilution look like? How
would we structure the board? What does
our board of adviserss look like? Like I
started with an org chart. Like when we
started Mother Beverage, there was no
org chart. It was like we didn't know
what we were doing and oh my gosh, okay,
we've had some success. Now we got to
like figure it out. We need to like
bring more people in. You sort of like
hodge podge it together. Uh and it's
like held together with duct tape a
little bit. Um, and maybe you guys feel
the same way, but it's like this this
time it's before any one hire. I've got
an org chart of like 35 or 40 people.
And like what are those strategic hires
that you're going to put in place
>> before we even had a name?
>> Before we even had a name, literally
literally full-on org chart of 35 or 40
people and who are those strategic
players that can that are good for the
business now, but also have longevity in
the business. So, we're always looking
for like these player coaches, someone
that's strategic but is also like
willing to roll up their sleeves and and
get it done. And so, before we were like
we were probably hiring 6 months too
late. And now we're probably looking at
it to say, hey, like how can this person
fill the need for at least 18 months and
and making sure that we're staying at
least 12 months ahead of the hires,
maybe 6 months at the very least to make
sure that they're in the in the right
place. because a lot of the times it
takes you longer to get that person to
find that person to get that person into
the business to get that person up to
speed and to get that person to actually
add value and contribute
>> and so um you just you just want to get
ahead of it.
>> At Poppy though with that process we
were maybe not hiring we're hiring for
now and not future and I'm sure you guys
have heard the saying like what's gotten
you here won't get you there.
>> And sometimes that's okay. Sometimes you
can hire from now if you feel
comfortable that you can fire people.
It's easier said than done, though.
>> It's easier said than done
>> because like even if they aren't your
friend or family when you initially hire
them,
>> it's really really tough. It's It's
really tough conversation
>> when you're like, "Listen, you were
great from 0 to $10 million or you were
great from
>> you're not great at 200 million."
>> Yeah. 10 to $25 million and like you
helped us get here. You've been amazing,
but we've simply outgrown you. That's a
really tough conversation to have. And
so we've we've navigated that a couple
ways which is which is interesting and
they're not and they're not easy but
like we've actually um we've kept people
around demoted their titles kept them at
the same pay because there were so many
intangibles that they also contributed
to the business whether that was culture
camaraderie like whatever that was. Um,
but those are those are really tough
conversations
>> and we gave 99% of people at Poppy
equity and it was like a four-year vest
and as people got promoted, we would up
their equity and we really just like
valued our team and so like when we were
winning to sell like they were part of
that sale. I don't know like how many
millionaires did we make?
>> I mean there's like people were calling
us after the sale crying. They'd bought
a house, they' bought cars, they bought
their mom a house. So, it's just like we
it was like quote unquote I actually
don't love saying like
>> like 40 people millionaires and I just
feel like it was um I don't love saying
your employees are family because it's
not family. You're there to do a
business but you can be friends
>> and you can have respect and you can
have, you know, conversations outside of
work and build relationships at the end
of the day. So, I think we valued our
team above all and I think that that can
go really far. And so then when we had
those hard conversations of people that
were there from the beginning,
>> we ran into like six of them last week
and you run to each other and give each
other hugs, right? They understood it.
It was it was not necessarily like a bad
thing because they also knew they'd
probably outgrown the business.
>> I love that. I I wanted to ask about
when we think about a lot of modern day
beverage companies in today's world. A
lot of people, you know, maybe people
that have even had success in their
past, they'll want to go and attach
themselves to an influential figure per
se to kind of be the head of that
company, but a lot of those businesses
end up failing.
>> Mhm.
>> What do you see is the reason that even
though people may be able to get a very
sorry
>> influential person, you know, within
their space, whether they're an athlete,
whether they're an artist, actor,
whatever it may be, why do those
companies end up failing? I think it's
like celebrity ran companies. Is that
what you're saying? Or
>> like the idea of either, you know, a
celebrity going to partner up with
somebody and and start a a beverage
company, a coffee, you know, whatever it
may be.
>> I can speak to Poppy and say like Alex
Earl. Why that worked so well was
because we worked with her when she was
still in college and so we grew with
her, right? It wasn't like we went to
her when she had millions of followers.
She was the hottest influencer creator
out there and we said, "Hey, can we give
you a check and you post Poppy?" No, she
had been posting us for years. So, it
was already organically part of her
life. And we worked with her for 3 years
between paid and equity, right? It was a
true partnership that she was an
extension of our brand. It wasn't just
like um paytoplay play. And I think that
actually celebrities and influencers and
creators have gotten smarter. The equity
is a riskier thing, but like why not try
it? They've seen success over and over
again. So that's one leg of it. The
second leg is like say Messi launching
his Moss Plus hydration company and now
it's going out of business because they
took a celebrity didn't probably have
the right infrastructure on the business
side and it's failing because they
thought that him as the face would take
them really really far. Right. Um, look,
you can be a celebrity ran business, but
you need the team behind you that
actually knows what they're doing, cuz
that's it's just not going to work that
way. If you just slap a celebrity to
something, the consumer is smarter. It
is a whole other world of authentic
connection. And, you know, if you can't
get it to shelf and know how to market
it to get it off shelf, you ru ruin
retailer relationships. Like there's so
much more that goes to business than the
marketing and uh celebritybacked.
>> But you said something that was like
really important right there and it
actually reminds me of a piece of advice
that Todd Graves, the Raising Kane's
founder, had actually given to me in in
an interview that we did, which is that
whenever he does partnerships or is like
working with people, he loves it when
it's like like the person that is
promoting the product authentically
actually loves
>> raising chicken and you mentioned that
it was already a part of her life. So
integot
the more organically that it can appear
and come up that like she's just
drinking this like it's like it's it's
not even she's not forced to kind of
promote it per se. So that was important
when you were
>> well Jake Shane um he's also just having
such a moment and and such an incredible
person. He posted when he had 90,000
followers, literally like was drinking
Poppy in almost every video. And so I
always give this advice to businesses.
Find your next Alex and Jake. Don't
just, you know, think that you need to
go really big really soon, right? And I
think Poppy was really good at finding
those like early stars and like growing
with them. And then we've supported them
and redone our contracts and continue to
work with them. It wasn't like we just
worked with them for a year and then
said, "Oh, you're big." We've we've used
your audience. We're moving on. No, we
were also good partners on our end. And
I think brands lose that side of it as
well.
>> Yeah. I think like the size of the the
content creator and influencer and the
size of the business has to be there has
to be some sort of like alignment there.
I feel like uh it was really
interesting. We did a partnership with
Jennifer Lopez, like massive icon, super
early on, year one of Poppy.
>> Uh
>> how much did you have to pay her?
>> Uh we paid her $250,000.
>> Was it for like just like a post on
social? one social post and like maybe
something
>> we had one social post and it was like a
year of usage
>> on a little video clip or something
>> on a little video clip and you on the
website or something and and it was very
exciting like it's Jennifer Lopez right
but our we weren't even in like half the
stores in the nation so people could
even like find us
>> we gained zero followers
>> because it was like a celebrity it
wasn't like an authentic connection and
it was a really good lesson that we
learned year one
>> sure she's She's like holding a poppy.
She's got like Dolian Gabbana on. She's
got like three other brands that she's
like promoting in this like music video.
And it just um yeah, it just felt it
just felt like a it felt transactional,
I guess, is the biggest way. And I feel
like it was because she's got like how
many hundreds of millions of followers
across all of her platforms or whatever
it is. Like we had like 20,000 or like
30,000 followers at this time.
>> And so like how does that how does that
relationship really come about if it's
not transactional? And I think people
can just people
>> consumer smarter.
>> Yeah. People can sense that.
>> That is so interesting. I have never
heard anyone say that before of the
brand and the creator if they're doing a
partnership has to be aligned in terms
of just kind of like recognition
and awareness because then it just it it
seems
>> almost in a way to where it is strictly
just transactional. It's like oh this is
just another paid ad
>> versus like this is actually a company I
actually personally endorse. It's like a
completely different style of messaging.
when you're looking at creators like
doing deals and like when you look at
that deal in particular, did you notice
a big difference with like did you
notice an uptick of sales and like or
what was kind of like the biggest thing
you guys kind of learned from doing that
partnership
>> just to not do it again? I don't think
we
>> don't let a quart million dollars of
cash.
>> No, we didn't work with any more
celebrities
um until we were a big company like
basically the year before we sold. We
did a incredible partnership with Post
Malone and it was because we were
actually friends with his manager. Posty
went through like a whole
transformation. Um, and Steven texted
him and was like, "Hey, he's looking
great." And he's like, "Yeah, I
introduced him to Poppy. He lost all
this weight, stopped drinking soda." It
was like I was like, "This is so cool."
And then he went on a bunch of podcast
and he was talking about it and I was
like, "Okay, we did." And then it was
really successful because like he was
drinking it. He loved the product. There
was like organic conversation. and he,
you know, it was this whole thing and
the retailers loved him and he was
having a moment, but we were huge. It
was the year before we sold. So, it can
work, but like I think this is a good
lesson that people can hear. And then I
think one more piece on this that I
think is really important is it can be
successful and looking like take skims
for example. You have Kim who's iconic.
She's doing skims and her co-founder is
Yenzen and Emma and they operationally
are incredible. They know how to run a
business and they are running a business
in partnership with the the creative of
what Kim is doing and it is a wild
billion-dollar company. So if you can
find that piece of the operational side,
it can be successful. But that's almost
the key piece.
>> Yeah. They've got to be allin, too.
>> Yeah.
>> I think as we go back to Mos is like how
much was
>> like he's got a million other things
going on as well. And so it's like
incentives had to have to be properly
aligned with all of like the boring back
of the house stuff to make sure that the
business is successful. You guys have
been married 12 years.
>> Mhm.
>> When you guys were building the company,
right? You have three kids. You were
were pregnant at at a pivotal point in
time during building the company and and
you you built a billion dollar company.
I want to talk about balance for a
second. Does balance exist when trying
to build a billion dollar company?
Especially in your case, you're
balancing a relationship. You're
balancing children. You're balancing the
grind of of trying to grow the company.
What is your perspective on balance?
>> When we were building Poppy, there was
absolutely zero balance, but let me just
tell you, I loved every second of it
because I liked the chaos. I like
working hard. And I think it's something
a lot of people don't talk about. And
there's a few stories. I remember I had
my second. It was right after um No, it
was after my third. It was during the
year fastest growing year we were at and
I was on a call with our PR agency.
They're like, "Allison, this is not a
good look. you're on a call 3 days after
you gave birth. And I said, "Why? I want
to be here." She's like, "Oof, I don't
know about that example." And I said,
"My child's just fine sleeping. I will
breastfeed on the Zoom. Like, I don't
know what to tell you. Like, I want to
be here and I'm perfectly fine."
>> And um I saw the owner of the PR agency
3 months later and she was pregnant for
the first time at 42 and said, "I never
thought I could do that until I talked
to you." And now she has three kids. And
I just think that like sometimes we all
think we need to have balance in life.
You can figure out what is that balance
for you. If you need to work out, do
that. If you like to work hard, do that.
And I think we should stop shaming each
other and having this work life balance.
It's like have it. Now, next company
that we're working on, we've earned that
right to have more balance and
absolutely I will have more balance. Um,
and another piece on that is like that
balance I had to learn with the kids
piece is a non-negotiable. So when I am
home, I am present. We put the tablets
down. We put our phones down and we play
with our kids. And I think if you find
that you just do that and you're present
that like you being away for 5 days,
they're like, "Oh, hey mom, where were
you?" Like, "Cool, give me a hug." And
they like run and go play football,
right? So I think um you have to figure
out what your balance is, but stop
shaming us if we like to work hard.
>> Yeah. It's like what is the purpose of
balance? like people are are like trying
to achieve balance because they believe
that's where happiness and joy resides
is in balance and I think everybody has
a different journey on what brings them
joy and and what brings them happiness
and so I think you just every season of
life is going to be different for each
person but I think it's like go find
what makes you happy and brings you joy
and go do that and don't worry about
what what anybody else is doing you know
for us like she said we had a lot of fun
doing what we were doing and so it
didn't it didn't feel like work. We were
we were happy and and we had a lot of
joy in doing it. But like I think as you
said in this in this next season and
it's also like having that having that
freedom which we now have the financial
freedom that we now have like that goal
and desire to do that that was also like
something that we felt like would bring
us joy and and happiness of of attaining
that goal. And so now that we've
attained the goal, I think that there's
less pressure on us. And what brings us
happiness and joy now is being able to
still build and create and um work
really hard and challenge ourselves, but
it's also to like challenge ourselves
within the four walls of our home and
how we show up for each other and how we
show up for our kids as well.
>> It was so funny the other day some some
founder said to me and Stephen were
sitting there and he's like, "Oh, I just
am so into longevity. I shut the
computer at 4:00. I cold plunge. I
sauna. I work out." And I was like I was
like, "Oh my gosh, when was your exit?"
And he's like, "Oh, I I've not exited."
And I'm like, "Makes a lot of sense."
>> Like I'm like, "It's not going to work."
>> 4:00. Like, "What are you doing?" Like
we we both walked away from that. We
were like, "He's not going to probably
ever exit."
>> Yeah, for sure. Like I mean it's like I
I I say it all all the time like if you
like if you want what others can't have,
like you have to do what others won't
do. And like are you willing to do that?
And and if you're not like, you know,
you need to be okay with not having all
of these other things that that people
want. But as we talk about like working
hard and like being challenged and I
think like balance sort of plays into
that as well. Uh like, oh, I've got to
have like time to relax and do all of
these other things. Like ask yourself
and I ask myself like what are the times
in my life that um that I feel the most
proud of that I've had the most growth
from? And those are typically the most
challenging and most difficult seasons
of your life that you've been able to
overcome that maybe didn't allow you to
have balance in the moment. But I think
showing up, working hard, trying your
best, and overcoming those really
challenging moments are like what have
been a huge source of joy and confidence
for me. And so I don't know, that's one
of the things I I focus on. I like to
share with other people. It's just like
work hard and you'll probably be happier
for doing it if you're uh working hard
on something you love. I have a question
for both of you guys. So when I look at
your story, I see you had a great
founder story. There was a clear problem
that you guys were able to come up with
a solution for. You had a you had a
great product. You know, you were able
to find some distribution early on with
the Whole Foods um connection. Uh
eventually you guys developed a really
great brand and you you found a really
savvy marketing strategy. That's it.
It's it's it's almost like it's hard to
like most most people don't get to that
point. Uh and often times while we're
building this journey, I like to think
back to like, you know, I started my
first I'm 25 now, but I started my first
business at 18. I'm like, man, like I I
don't believe in like regrets or
changing anything because like I believe
everything that got me to this moment
today is like what made us who we are.
But I almost want to ask for each of you
guys, if you had if you could be face to
face with yourselves when you first
started the business, when you first had
that idea in the kitchen and when you
decided to go all in, if you had 30
seconds to be able to have a
conversation with yourself, what would
you what would you tell yourself in that
moment?
>> Mine is that fun is fuel for business
and that you have to continue to have
fun. Don't take yourself so serious. I
think early days or early career people
are always like on the grind like I got
to graduate college to get a job. I got
once you start a business, I got to sell
this company. I, you know, got to start
a family. Like we're always like working
towards a goal and we forget to have
fun. And even, you know, maybe that was
the balance that I had at Poppy is we
still went to ACL every year and went to
festivals. Um, we giggled in meetings
and it was the culture at Poppy of that
like fun piece and I think fun is the
key to not burning out.
>> Like I love that so much and I even want
to talk about like your example of of
like having a kid. But I feel like at so
many corporations or organizations like
that's not celebrated. And I think that
we genuinely cared about all of the
people that we were working with. So
like if they were training for a
marathon or if they were like starting a
family like all of those things were
talked about and so normal within the
organization um that like while we
weren't family, we had like so much
camaraderie and respect for for one
another and in their pursuits like
outside of the four walls of the
organization. If I could go back,
there's so many cringe moments and of of
things that I would go back and and do
differently. But I agree with you where
it's just like, listen, we're here where
we are and there were really great
opportunities for growth. But what I
would say is it's okay to fail and it's
okay to not know everything. I felt like
I had to know everything. I had to
figure out how to do it all on my own. I
had a really hard time asking for help.
And that's probably the biggest piece of
advice that I'd go back and tell myself.
Hopefully like to end these podcasts off
with two quick questions for our guest.
I'll start and Jack will end us off
here. I talked about this earlier, but
Allison Steven, if all of us in this
room were to pass away tomorrow and you
could leave one more message with the
younger generation, what would that be?
What's your last message to the younger
generation today?
>> For me, it's the American dream is alive
and well, and we are proof.
>> Live your life with no regrets. I think
show up. If you have a dream, do
whatever it takes to make it happen. And
for both of you guys, you know, you
exited a company, $2 billion, like like
less than 0.00001%
of people ever get a chance to do that.
Um, for you guys, how do you want to be
remembered?
>> Exiting my company is the largest exit
of a female founder in beverage history.
So to set that legacy that other females
can do what I did, I think is really
impactful. The legacy that I want to
leave is you can build a great business
and you can be really successful and you
can do really great things, but it never
gives you the permission to be a jerk.
And I think that um I want to be
remembered as someone that was a good
human, that was generous with their
time, but also built really cool
businesses.
>> You guys have amazing advice and this
was an incredible podcast.
>> Thank you both. And for everybody
watching right now, be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content,
interviews, and the biggest business
owners in the entire world coming to the
Hard Knocks podcast. We're going to put
the link down in the description to the
handles for both Alice and Stephen. That
way everybody can continue to follow
along with your guys' journey. Anything
else that people need to be aware of
coming down in the the pipeline for you
all? What's going on in the near future
for you guys?
>> Stay tuned for September of this year.
Something coming soon.
>> September 2026.
Something's coming soon. Be sure to
everybody be sure to follow along with
them. And we're also going to put the
link down in the description to the
school of mentors, which is the number
one most powerful entrepreneur community
and network in the entire world that we
launch to connect you directly with the
8, nine, and 10 figureure entrepreneurs
that we interview every single week on
the School of Hard Knock. So, we can't
wait to see you on the inside. With that
being said, we'll see you in the next