I've built multiple successful companies
starting with nothing but one person and
AI. Some of them are already making
millions in revenue. But, did you know
that over 600 businesses fail every
single day in the United States? Most
don't fail because of bad ideas or bad
marketing. They fail because they didn't
ask the right questions before they
started. So, before I start any
one-person business, these are the three
questions I ask AI. So, the first one is
what to sell.
Everyone starts an AI business the same
way. They see AI do something super
cool, and then they try to build a
business around it. That's completely
backwards. And I was doing the same
thing way before AI was even a thing. I
started building companies when I was
17, and I went almost a decade
completely failing. My first two
companies, I asked the wrong question.
First company was a vacation rental
site. My dad had a cottage, and I wanted
to learn some new technology. Instead of
building a business, I built technology.
And then the guy who owned at the
cottage.com, he kicked my butt. Then I
decided to build another company, a
hosting company. Why? I thought, "Well,
I'm paying somebody else for hosting. I
should own the hosting." Web hosting is
like selling salt. I'm sure somebody out
there is making a bazillion dollars
selling salt, but back in 1999, I wasn't
that guy. And both died because I
started with the question, "What do I
want to build?" Then I changed the
question, "What problem are people
already paying someone else to solve?"
That one question allowed me to build
Spheric Technologies, my first real
company. Because instead of starting
with the technology, I went to find out
who was already paying for solutions.
And I discovered there was a whole bunch
of companies paying other companies to
build what was called enterprise
portals, these internal intranets. And
because I followed the money, I found
out where the pain was. I asked, "Who is
already paying to solve this problem?"
That allowed me to find the customers.
That allowed me to find my partners. My
partners brought me into deals. As a 24,
25-year-old, I was selling to Fortune
500 companies, all because I asked the
right question. And only 4 years later,
not only did I sell the company, I
became a multi-millionaire. Same person,
same knowledge, same skill, but a
different question. Now, today, I never
start another company without asking
this question first. Every single
company starts with the market. The
market tells me where it hurts. They
show me what they're already paying for,
then I get paid to build a solution.
Today with AI, it allows you to get even
deeper, quicker, without trying to
guess. And I'm going to show you how to
do that today. Because there's only two
types of businesses. You're either a
vitamin, nice to have, or you're a
painkiller, a must-have. One of them can
make you some money, the other one will
get you rich. When I think of vitamins,
I think of things that like could make
my life better. Tools to help me
stretch, or productivity apps, or
insurance for a problem I never
experienced, but maybe it could happen.
I don't need them. I don't have an acute
pain. But when I think of painkillers,
this is a pill that solves an acute
problem. These are tools that help
people make more money, get more leads,
retain their team, hire quicker. Because
most people have like hair on fire
problems, and we need to get them the
painkiller to solve those problems. I
call this a frustration list. When
budgets get tight at a company, the
first things to go are the vitamins. The
last thing's going to go is anything
that makes money, which is usually a
painkiller problems. So, a lot of people
ask me, "Okay, well damn, well how do I
find painkiller problems?" Well, the
first thing is we have to develop the
muscle. We got to see all these
frustrations that are happening around
us that sometimes we just go through
life and ignore. When people start
businesses, they usually struggle with
finding good ideas. I have the problem
of saying no to a lot of great ideas.
Why? I've developed this muscle. These
are the steps to develop this skill. So,
what I want you to do is tomorrow, as
you go through the world, I want you to
write down anything that frustrates you.
I'm talking about simple things, like
why do I have to plug my phone in? Why
do I always have to open and close my
garage door? Pretty much anything that
makes you go like, "Ugh." every day. As
you build this list, what you'll develop
is the skill to see opportunities. Cuz
people only pay for three things. They
pay for money, things that'll make them
or save them money, they pay for time,
productivity, how do I get my time back?
It doesn't matter if I'm a CEO or I'm a
manager or I'm an entry-level employee,
and then they pay for status. How does
this thing make me look? If you miss all
three of those, then you haven't built a
painkiller, you've just built a vitamin.
The point is to develop volume and write
down as many things as you can to
develop the skill of seeing potential
ideas that become painkillers. And the
way I see it is million-dollar
businesses aren't built on $10 problems.
You have to have serious problems that
solve serious pain for somebody out
there that's hurting. If you got a
migraine and I got a pill and it's $100
to get rid of that migraine, you're
going to buy it from me. And here's a
crazy hack for this. Call the consulting
companies already working with those
companies that are getting proof through
what they're paying for to solve those
problems. Because those are the services
that they sell. They wouldn't sell a
service if there wasn't demand for it.
So, that's how we do it manually, but
here's how we use AI to accelerate
things. I use Claude, but any AI can
work. We got to find the pains. So,
write this into your Claude. I want to
start an AI-first businesses in and
insert your industry. That's where I
already spend my time and it's where I
want to build. That means it's something
you know. So, give me 10, this is key,
observable and nuanced pain points that
people in this industry deal with every
single day. Not the obvious stuff
everybody already knows, the specific
ones you'd only catch if you were
actually in the room. Only give me pains
that are getting worse, not better, and
rank them by how much people are willing
to pay for them to be solved. And ask me
any question you need to get clarity.
So, this is the exact step that I used
to make sure that it's bulletproof. By
definition, if you ask the AI a generic
question, you will get a general
response, which will get you a very
basic business. So, we want to be very
specific around the pain points. With
this, you'll get real specific problems
people will pay for. So, now we figured
out what we should sell that's a
painkiller, not a vitamin. Here's what
you're going to ask AI. Question number
two, find your edge.
Finding a painkiller is just the start.
Question number two will help you figure
out how to solve it in a way that only
you can. For example, when my brother
started building homes, he had an idea.
How about I build the cheapest home?
Because if it's the cheapest home, then
everybody's going to buy it. Obviously,
people had a pain and they wanted to buy
a home, but he built the wrong thing
because he didn't figure out what his
edge was. And it's why it didn't sell
for almost nine months. He realized his
edge was working backwards from the
customer and building something they
wanted. He was willing to do something
nobody else in the home industry at the
time was doing, which is market
research. He decided to grab all the
potential buyers, go look at the dozens
of different open houses on a Sunday,
and ask them what aspect of those homes
do they like, and took the best ideas
and put it into a new design. And he
didn't then just go out and build the
third and fourth home. Instead, he
designed it, he got renderings for it,
and then he pre-sold 16 homes with
deposits before he ever put a shovel on
the ground. That's what allowed him to
scale one of the top home builders and
now real estate developers in Eastern
Canada. The other thing he realized is
that it takes some, on average, less
than 100 days to build those kind of
homes. So, what he decided to do is make
a commitment to his customer, a promise
of building the home in 99 days or less.
And what's funny is I remember the first
time he did a home show and other
builders would walk by his booth with
his 99 day promise, and they would say
like, "That's not that impressive cuz we
do the same thing." But they weren't
willing to claim it. He figured out what
his edge was. Early on for me, my
obsession and passion for just writing
code and building software and building
any tool that anybody found useful,
that's what I love. Now I want to teach
you how to do this for yourself. For
you, it could be your skills, it might
be time, it might be relationships that
other people don't have. You got to mine
what you have to figure out what gives
you an edge in the market. The reason
why I was able to help my brother go
through this process is because it's
something I had to figure out the hard
way. And that's why I teach other people
the same way that I did it. And often
times it's teaching business owners how
to integrate AI into their business. So,
the question you got to ask yourself is
how do you figure out what your unfair
advantage is. Essentially, what do you
know how to do better than almost
anybody. One of the things that my
brother had that most home builders
didn't have back then is a dedicated
architect. And because most people
building homes just buy plans off the
internet, especially if it's a spec
home, and then just build it, there was
no advantage. How do you compete in a
red ocean like home building to create
your own blue ocean, which is one that
doesn't have competition, where you can
differentiate and you're better. This
one's about you. It's what's unique to
you, the thing that nobody else can do.
And the hard part often times is you
can't see your own advantage because
you're too close to it. It's really easy
for you. So, you just assume everybody
knows how to do this. You don't realize
how special it is. So, it's easier to
get an external source to tell you,
which is where we bring AI. So, here's
what we need to do. The first step is
you got to connect everything you have
that it can use for research. I'm
talking your Gmail, your Slack, your
calendar, your social medias. Make sure
they knows everything about you so that
it knows you better than you know you.
For example, my AI has access to
everything. I'm talking meetings,
transcripts, trainings, all my
financials, my whole life, all the
decisions I've made for the last 15
years. I've slurped it all in so that it
knows everything. So, in that same chat,
where we already have our pain killer
identified, here's what we write. Based
on everything you know about me, where
do I have an unfair advantage? What can
I do better than 97% of people? And the
second step is if you need to give it
more context, make it interview you.
This is where you write. Now, interview
me about the last 10 years of my work.
10 questions one at a time, then tell me
what my unique edge is. And like, here's
the pro tip. Use your voice. It's way
faster and it provides more context. So,
I use a tool called WhisperFlow where it
asks the question, it prompts me, and
then I can reply talking to it, it
transcribes it, and way quicker talking.
Now, once you get an answer, the third
step is to make sure it fights you on
the answer. Essentially, you don't want
it to just be a yes-man. So, this is
where we write. Be brutally honest. Is
that actually rare or am I overrating
myself? Where would someone who's done
this their whole career actually crush
me? You want to make sure that it's not
just making you feel good. Now, you
cross-reference those answers against
the first question. You've got the
painkiller we picked and the edge we
just found. Where do they overlap? Give
me the one place where my edge is the
reason this problem gets solved better
than anybody else could solve it. If
they don't overlap, say so. So, pain
alone is a market, edge alone is a
resume. Where they cross is actually
where the business is. And that's the
reason somebody will pick you over
everyone else selling the same thing.
For me, my edge is helping other
business owners use AI to scale so they
don't build a business they grow to
hate. Why? Because I went through it
personally. And I know the pain that I
felt and how hard it was to figure out
the path forward. It's why I teach so
many people to do it, which is why I
built my AI company OS. Full playbook on
how to integrate AI into every
department of a business. I'm talking
marketing, finance, delivery, all of it.
And if you want it, just find me on
Instagram and DM me AI business and I'll
send it over. When I work backwards from
a real pain a customer had to figure
what I need to sell, and then I added my
unfair advantage, which is the fact that
I would do this for free, then I had an
edge that made me successful, which
brings us to our third question. We have
to find real buyers and test the market.
Question one told us what to solve,
question two told us how we stand out,
but unfortunately, neither one of those
get us paid. The only thing that
actually makes it worth it is getting a
stranger to part with their money. You
need to get a wallet, which AI can help
us get. As you build a business, people
will tell you, "That's such a great
idea. You should build it. Come back
when you're done. I'll use it. I'll pay
you for it. I'll be your first
customer." And I will tell you, they're
lying to you. They don't mean to, but
they're not being honest because if you
actually ask them for money in that
moment, they wouldn't give it to you.
That's why we have to do this test. When
I started my fourth company, Flowtown, I
wanted to know if they would actually
pay for it. So, what I did is I created
a landing page. I had them go through
the whole sign-up, go through all the
different screens, and even put in their
real credit card to validate and confirm
they're willing to pay. And guess what?
20% did. That number told us everything.
And then I would just say,
"Unfortunately, our servers are over
capacity, and we're not able to take new
customers on." But here's the deal.
There were no servers are over capacity.
There was no product that was even
built. That simple idea, that's why I
call it the Wizard of Oz. It's the man
behind the curtain. I simulated the real
transaction to validate, to ensure a
customer is willing to pay with a credit
card before I built anything. There's
nothing more expensive than building
something that nobody will pay for. And
that's just something I've done in every
company I've built since then. We've
launched 12 companies in the last 18
months, and we've done this process with
each one of them. We wanted to test
before we built. Did they have a
painkiller problem or a vitamin problem?
Question three for me is both validating
that there's demand for what I want to
solve, and for the way I solved it. It's
not would somebody pay, it's would they
pay for it the way I'm solving it. And
an even better question is how do I get
a real payment over the next 7 days?
Here's what you need to understand. You
need to prove it before you build it.
This is why we need to figure out.
People fall down the path all the time.
I got to register my Instagram account.
I got to build the perfect design. I
have to have a logo, a business card,
all before they ever even find out if
anybody wants this. So, the right
question is does anybody wants this
enough to pay me right now? Cuz here's
the way I look at it, certainty brings
currency. You sell before you build
every single time. This is how we use AI
to test even faster for a third
question, and there's four parts. First,
we have to ask the cheapest possible
test. We don't want to spend a bunch of
money to validate anything, so we need
to figure this out. So, the prompt is
this, based on the painkiller and the
edge we landed on, design the cheapest
market test that gets me one real
payment within the next 7 days. No
pre-existing website, no brand, no logo,
or business registration before I spend
hours building anything. And then number
two is have it write the offer. So, ask
it, write the one-page offer, a clear
promise, timeline, and price. Nothing
else. Third, make it build the actual
path for a payment. So, write this
prompt, now give me the 10 people I
should contact first, the exact message
to send, and the follow-up to ask for
the money. Not a call, not a demo, cash.
Number four and the final step, then
make it find the hole before the market
does. So, we want to write, why would
some people say they want this and never
pay? Ask it, what is my riskiest
assumption and how do I test for that
one first? Now it's giving you a cheap
test, you've got the offer, and you
bulletproof it so you know they want it.
Send that message that it gave you the
offer out today, and take deposits from
whoever's willing to lean in. Now,
here's an important thing, we want to go
manual before we start automating
anything. Before we even know what
people are going to say. So, we do the
first 10 by hand before automating a
thing. And I know with AI, you might
want to start automating or even scaling
this up. You're like, 10, I can do 100.
Stop yourself. If you scale things up
too quick, it's the wrong move. So, for
test, we have to pre-sell.
So, now we know what we're selling as a
painkiller, we have an unfair advantage
on an edge, and we're pre-selling to get
people to pay us with money to prove
they actually want what we have, the way
we're going to solve it. Now, here's the
thing. You could do all those three
things and do them perfectly and still
walk away with nothing because there's
two mistakes that kill all of it. The
first one I was guilty of for the first
7 years. Number one is you fell in love
with your solution. I wanted to build
stuff. I was interested in the
technology. What I should have did is
fell in love with my customer's problems
because that's what I needed to learn. I
needed to understand exactly what they
felt was a painkiller and how they
wanted it solved, not what I wanted to
do. Theory and ideas will tell you what
could work. A real person opening their
wallet tells you what actually does.
That's why we would go through this
whole process so we're not delusional.
So, the first time you go through it,
make sure that you're not lying to
yourself and you really test your
assumptions because the second thing is
we got to make sure that AI doesn't lie
to us because as great as AI is, it is
world-class at being a people pleaser.
It will sit there and tell you you're
smart and you're awesome and it'll be a
cheerleader for you and you could do no
wrong. It doesn't want to tell you that
your idea is dumb. It would never say
that. Instead, it's going to tell you to
go do it. It's going to tell you exactly
how to do it even if it's not the best
one. That is a trap and you don't even
notice that it's happening because you
never question it and everybody wants AI
to agree with them. Everybody needs,
especially in the early days when we're
starting a business, we're just like so
fragile that any negative feedback could
derail us and we just decide not to do
it. But, please don't allow yourself to
fall prey to this. You have to push back
on the AI and ask it to be a ruthless
mentor. Be brutally honest. That's the
language I use in my prompts and that's
why for every single answer, make sure
you give this to it. You got to flip it
back. Now, push back on me. Tell me why
this fails. Where am I kidding myself?
In the military, they call it red
teaming. You essentially attack your
idea or your plan based on what you
think the enemy will do and make that a
habit and do that as often as possible.
You have to put yourself on the other
side of the coin. You have to say like,
why won't this work? How do I think
about it? And then from that, you can
actually do the things that are going to
protect you. So, doing those things will
help you not only find the right thing
to buy and give you your edge, but it's
going to allow you to validate so you
don't waste that much of time and energy
building something nobody wants. Now,
here's what I've learned. Building
companies for the last 30 years is
essentially realizing that my whole life
is the byproduct of questions questions
I ask myself. The quality of my
questions dictate the quality of my
life. And I want to encourage you to be
more curious, to seek continued growth,
to decide that a properly timed
question, even a question you repeatedly
ask yourself, on the backside of that is
potential for you to become a even more.
So, out of those three strategies,
figuring out what you want to sell, your
edge, or how to test it, which one did
you like best? I need you to leave me a
comment below to let me know that you
picked that up, because the next time
you start your business, cuz it may not
be your first time, you're going to use
that strategy to avoid making that
mistake. Now, remember, if you want my
full playbook on how I integrate AI into
every department of my business, just DM
me AI business on Instagram, and I'll
send you the company OS. And if you want
to learn how to make your first 100K,
click this video next.
