We're sitting down with David Stout. You
built a company, [music] Web AI. How
much is your company worth today?
>> We're valued publicly at 2 and a half
billion valuation.
>> So, you are a billionaire, my friend,
>> on paper.
>> You grew up on a ranch in Michigan.
>> Yeah. We started the company on a $400
loan that we took from my grandpa. So, I
went to a small business school called
Davenport. And as a freshman, I [music]
launched a web service company.
>> How much was the company making at that
time?
>> 750K plus a year, easy.
>> Did you drop out or you finished?
>> I didn't finish school. I'm making 750K.
[laughter]

I got Yeah.
Is there anything [clears throat] about
AI that scares you?
>> No, there's nothing about AI that scares
me. There's things about [music] people
in companies that scare me. The people
that are steering it, picking its
direction, what they build with it, how
they use it. You can't regulate
morality. I [music] think the best
possible future for AI is one that kind
of mimics the Second Amendment where you
have a right to own AI and we should
have a right to own our own
intelligence. And David, building an
incredible company, amazing
relationships for you. When it's all
said and done, how do you want to be
remembered?
>> That's a hard question. Yeah.
What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh.
And we have an incredible guest for you
all right now. We're sitting down with
David Stout who has become one of the
pioneers in the AI space. You've built a
company, Web AI, that is now valued at
how much? How much is your company worth
today?
>> We're valued publicly at two and a half
billion valuation.
>> And how much of that company do you own?
>> Right around 50%.
>> So you are a billionaire, my friend,
>> on paper. [laughter]
>> How does that feel, man? you, for the
people that don't know, man, you grew up
on a ranch in Michigan. Is that right?
>> Yeah. Yes, sir.
>> And now you've become a billionaire on
paper. The company's growing massively.
We've got big news coming out soon,
right? How does that feel, man? How did
all this happen?
>> Yeah. So, thanks for having me. It's a
privilege. I always love getting to
catch up with you guys. Um, love what
you're building. Um, we need more people
building good things in Austin, so it's
always good uh to see y'all. And uh man,
building a company is hard, especially
when you come from a world that's not
technical. So where I grew up, the idea
of starting a tech company was probably
even beyond like a pipe dream. I just
don't even know anyone that did that. I
didn't have an example, that's for sure.
Uh, but
I think there's there's a lot of
analogies or parallels to growing up on
a farm that just apply to almost any
type of business. Um, farm is business.
You know, you're you're raising cattle,
you're doing hard work. Um, my house was
heated by a wood stove. So, and a lot of
people don't I mean people don't have
that even awareness today where at 4
a.m. about 500 yards from the house, we
had a wood stove outside that you pumped
with wood and we would cut the wood in
the summer. We would stack it in the
summer and then in the winter you used
it and you had to time and sort that
correctly so you had enough wood for the
whole winter and in Michigan you have
serious winters similar to DC you guys
have bad winters. Um, but there's a lot
of fundamentals of just like problem
solving that come from that. And, uh,
to look back now and see like, man, I'm
glad I experienced those things cuz they
helped me navigate as a young man how to
deal with challenges, to be persistent,
to not give up, to keep to keep
grinding. Like, the job's not done for
WebI. Like, we're not even close to
being done. Guys, we're about to get
right back to this episode, but real
quick, look, every single week, we're
bringing you guys direct access to
billionaires all over the world, eight,
nine, and 10 figure founders from every
part of the world. And I don't want you
to miss out on any of these
conversations coming to you live every
week. So, before we get back to the
episode, go down, click the subscribe
button to never miss an episode. With
that being said, let's get back to the
episode. It's hard to build a business.
You guys know this. It's hard. So, to
look back, it's always good to celebrate
like where you've gotten to. um but not
over celebrate it and look at it and say
okay how do we continue to provide value
for our customers for our investors uh
for ultimately people we haven't
impacted yet
>> and for me I look at it as a great sign
that we're well on our way to to doing
that more how are you even exposed to
the concept that you could build wealth
through technology and specifically
artificial intelligence and I asked that
because it's very easy for somebody to
come from your background and you know
have that small town mindset that I'm
not I ain't leaving home not I'm working
on the farm I'm doing something in
agriculture, maybe I want a restaurant
one day, you know, like us being in the
DC area, it's also like a lot of people,
you know, the definition of success for
them is seeing everybody work that
government job. So, when were you kind
of exposed to this concept that you
could one day build a billion dollar
company of your own in the technology
space?
>> Yeah, I wouldn't say the technology
space was really exposed to me until I
got to college to be totally honest.
Like high school, college, I was
dabbling with computers and building
things.
>> Where did you go to school? Um, I went
to, so in high school I went to this
private academy which was like really a
changing moment for me. I went to
Brockway Academy and uh, what it enabled
for me was I got access to computers. It
was like a learn at your own pace type
school. I met my co-founder Ethan. Um, a
lot of people like college wasn't really
a priority for me. I wasn't even
thinking about it. And I think that's
probably more normal in where I came
from where college is kind of a
supplemental thing. Some people did it,
you know.
>> Did you stay in Michigan for college? I
did for for a little. So I went to a
small I small business school called
Davenport and as a freshman I launched a
web service company and that was really
because I was so in love with computers
and I was building things in college
that I realized I could make money doing
this thing that I have a native skill at
and I wanted to test that. So my
roommate and I launched a web service
company. We grew that quite
considerably. um 60 customers our first
year um doing web services. So we were
doing like
>> back-end web services before some of
these like drag and drop website
builders existed.
>> How much was the company making at that
time?
>> I made a lot. I mean it was kind of it
was variable because we were college
kids but you know
750k plus a year easy as like
>> did you drop out or you finished?
>> I didn't finish school. Okay. I'm making
750k. Yeah. [laughter] I got
>> Yeah. That's a good signal right there.
I mean, and they were it was lumpy,
right? So, as a as a college kid, all of
a sudden, Ethan and I would get checks
for like 60 grand like in a month and
we're just two guys in college, right?
So,
>> where was Davenport?
>> Davenport's like kind of towards the
middle of the state. It's in It's
Western Michigan. It's in Grand Rapids.
>> So, were you guys renting out all the
section at the bars on the weekends? Was
that what was happening? We had a dorm
room um uh at Grace which was a sister
school and uh we had an apartment so
made sure we we could manage that. But
it that so that was like a moment where
I was cutting my teeth. But if I roll
back even further, my dad um was always
doing something. So he had the farm, he
had different sales jobs. Like he always
was doing something e extra. And my dad
got in a car accident when he was young.
He got hit by a truck on a motorcycle
and he was in a coma. The result was he
didn't graduate high school. And one of
the coolest stories about my dad to me
is right away he had like the
entrepreneurial bone. He just had even
less of an opportunity than I did,
right? So he he bought a gas station and
it was called Ray and Ben Snowco. And um
so I had these ideas even as a kid that
you could do things right that it was
possible. Um the scale of which you
could do things you know I was thinking
gas stations not companies but um he my
parents modeled it well that you could
do it. My grandpa was a great engineer
on my mom's side and um was a late in
life entrepreneur like in his 60s and
70s and did really well. Um and so I
that was being modeled to me um through
family but not quite at the scale but it
was it there was always this idea that
yeah we can build things we can build
things we can create opportunities
um yeah but no one in my family's
technical which is pretty surprising
outside of like the engineering
backgrounds.
>> I always feel like people they have that
first business they end up starting that
kind of like throws them into their
trajectory of entrepreneurship. Uh, and
obviously for you that was the web
service business with uh, you know, you
and your partner on the uh, Michael Dell
vibes in the dorm room. Yes. Uh, so I
mean for you David, how did you like how
did that spiral into your
entrepreneurial journey? Like obviously
you're making 750K a year uh, doing the
web service, had 60 clients your first
month. Uh, where did where did it go
from there?
>> Dixie our first year just so uh, just
uh, to make sure we're totally on it. 60
months I might have stayed. [laughter]
>> That's what I meant. That's why 60 first
year. 60 year. Uh, I was like, "Wow,
that would be killer." Um, uh, yeah. So,
I got bored. Websites are easy.
>> Yeah,
>> it's really easy. And, um, we were
talking earlier, I'm the youngest of,
uh, a fairly large family, split family.
Um, I have one full brother and then,
uh, two half brothers, but still the
baby, run of the litter. And uh as the B
their birth order at least the older
I've got seems to definitely matter and
like how people operate and how they
think and where they tend to lean and um
I liked challenges and I also didn't
want to do anything that anyone else was
doing. And I can own that as like my own
personal problem and chip on my
shoulder, right, that I have to deal
with is I wanted to do things that I
thought were important but
incredibly overlooked and
uh started looking into neuropathy in
this idea of uh machine intelligence. So
I was like websites are cool but how do
I make this computer think? And this is
like 2016. Uh and started studying
getting my hands on any paper I could on
machine learning. And unfortunately
there's like no information on it. It
was so early and uh Ethan and I started
thinking through was with my co-founder
at Web AI how we could build AI systems.
And we started just taking the knowledge
we had from coding websites and starting
applying it to runtime systems. And
Ethan's one of the most brilliant
engineers I know. So he could code just
about anything. And uh it was a natural
progression looking for a challenge but
also looking at a problem that we
thought no one was really looking at
which was intelligence on machines would
be powerful but the majority of the use
cases in the world can't happen um if AI
doesn't live close to the data gravity.
>> So you started your first business with
Ethan.
>> Yes. And then my second one with
>> actually man that's awesome. Can Can you
talk to me about your relationship with
Ethan? And was there ever any doubt
after this the first company that you
guys weren't going to work together
going forward or
>> There was no doubt when we were in like
high school together.
>> Wow.
>> We were we were like, "Yeah, we're going
to start a business."
>> What made the bond so strong between the
two of you? Were you guys just aligned
on where you wanted to take things or
what was it?
>> Yeah, we had a we had a we had tough
times. So, as a you have I mean,
everybody has seasons in life where
crazy things happen. And um I don't want
to overshare his story, right? Because
that's his story. But um a lot of like
broken family um on his side and that
he'll share and has shared in some
outlets and that led to like really us
becoming full-on brothers. And um you
know there were worlds where there were
times where um the amount of
uh solitude and I would say just pure
poverty um he was in and we were in our
community that that just like bonds you
deeply. So um he's a brother and uh we
we did we did a lot of life in like our
high school. We we lived a lot of life
and we saw a lot and um we felt like
real things and I think what happens
when you do that is you grow up quickly
that fortunately unfortunately so I
think we grew up fast and uh we cling to
the group we had so we we were like yeah
we're brothers and we don't see a world
where we're not doing stuff together and
um it helps when when your buddy's
brilliant.
>> I love that you share that because I
even look at our own story. It's like I
look at where we're at now and it's such
a blessed position, but also I think
what made the connection so strong and
the bond so strong between the three of
us is because we also struggle together.
Like that we went through the trenches
together.
>> Yeah. Things don't always go right.
>> Exactly. But then you you actually see
it's like, hey, how does this person
operate when the bullets are flying and
and things aren't going well?
>> And so I know you had started to look
into, okay, how can I actually make this
computer think? Was this are you still
in college at this time? Are you leaving
college? And then also on top of that,
what was the parents reaction when you
were like, "Hey, I'm I'm dropping out."
Yeah, my parents were pretty supportive
of me stopping. Um I think in theory, my
parents were I they knew that I was
going to build this and I think they
viewed that I would go back if it
failed. You know, there's like [gasps]
it wasn't I don't know. I think if my
parents were like very sucked into the
education paradigm, I would have been
totally different and I probably
wouldn't have been solving the problem
they solved. So I don't think they were
totally convinced of that. I think they
were attracted to it because where we
came from, college would have been a big
deal, right? and it would have been
important but I don't think they I think
they trusted me which was a really
unique advantage I think because they
trusted that if I if I was trying to
work on something um
it was going to be meaningful and um my
parents bailed out my bank account. I
remember um I so I was I stopped
pursuing education. and I was building
um working on this AI stack and
something happened with some kind of
computer fee that we were trying to
order and I overdraft my account and my
parents were not like affluent or
anything like so but like I remember
calling my dad and him like wiring me
money and like so like they were they
were not they were not just like
supportive but they were like overly
supportive of hey if you want to do this
we think you good. Um, and uh, at the
time we were we started the company on a
$400 loan that we took from my grandpa
uh, to buy one machine that him and I
were sharing and we were writing all the
programs on. So it was an i3 processor
and we were working on getting this
darknet model which if you see Tesla's
driving around that's the model that
does all the object detection. So, it
detects people, cars, and we were trying
to run computer vision uh in the dorm
room. Turns out you can't because the
data center is so far away. And this is
what I mean by that gra gravity of data.
So, if I have a camera here and I want
to process what's in the room, the
latency kills it because you're sending
like gigabytes, terabytes of footage,
it's got to get processed and sent back
down. And uh that's when we made the
real epiphany of we're going to spend
all our time on getting AI to work on
this thing like my phone, my laptop, my
computer because if we can do that,
we're going to get AI back home. And
you know, on these farms, it's not like
you have massive connectivity or data
centers in your backyard. They're trying
to put data centers in people's backyard
now, but the idea of connectivity um was
sparse. And so we're like, okay, problem
focused on, right? we're going to bring
AI to device. That's all we're going to
focus on. No distractions, get AI to
work on devices. And that was a real
cementing moment for us. And um wasn't
an area that anybody was really
interested in. I've got some pretty had
some pretty harsh investors because when
you're trying to do something like that,
you got to get capital because it's
intense because you're building deep
tech and you got to get more people. And
I remember um you know some funds that
now are don't have this view and um Mark
Andre like follows me on Twitter but I
remember meeting with A16 and uh Mark
didn't say this but someone in the room
said this don't think edge AI meaning AI
running on like a device is a big enough
market.
>> So like not everybody's right all the
time.
>> Yeah. But founders, we take chips like
that and we're like, okay, I'll add that
to like the chip on my shoulder and I am
going to just, you know, look at that
every day, be like, okay, it's not a big
enough market, I guess. Um, so there's
there's real there's real value in
identifying a problem that people don't
care about there. So like I think
founders get discouraged really easily
when they think no one's recognizing the
problem. Uh, there's really two
scenarios. the problem you're solving is
stupid and no one cares and that's a
risk. The other thing is you're focused
on a problem that no one understands
yet. And when Ethan and I were working
on this, it was definitely thankfully a
problem that no one understood yet
rather than being us just being crazy.
I think my uh my probably my favorite
business like uh I guess rejection story
that I've ever heard is is Walt Disney
cuz it's just like think of the concept
of of a guy back in like you know the
30s the 40s 50s going around to people
saying oh I want to start a theme park
>> uh for for for cartoons and and and and
a and a and a mouse like he probably
sounded insane uh and just the amount of
rejection that he probably faced back
and uh and leading up to you know
obviously entrepreneurs go through a lot
of that. Um what was that like moment
and experience like or at least like
even today like I'm sure you know A16
isn't the only one that you've talked to
that
>> you know could you speak to a little
bit?
>> Could I add to that as well? Could I add
on to that as well? I I well I think
it's important because a lot of
entrepreneurs don't realize or at least
even just speaking for our viewers like
I don't think they realize the level of
persistence and belief and
self-conviction that you have to have in
what you're doing to really like make it
through. What I wanted to add on is when
you had the realization that it was time
to go and raise capital, right? Because
I mean obviously there's kind of a you
know you're you're bootstrapped until a
certain extent until you have that
heartto-he heart with you and your
partner other people telling you hey you
should probably go raise money for this
venture. So could you kind of maybe lead
with kind of telling us like when you
guys you and your partner were like,
"Hey, this is good, but we need to go
raise money." And then also kind of
allude to that persistence and what that
was like.
>> So we wanted to prove that it was real.
>> So this is this is we have to like roll
back the clocks to 2017 2018. Now AI is
not real yet. It's smoke and mirrors for
a lot of people. They don't think it's
totally real. People have been talking
about it for a really long time. not
sure I totally believe that it's going
to work and and then add to the
complexity. We're saying, hey, we're not
going to use any cloud compute. So,
we're we're going to we're going to
we're going to up the ante on the
complexity. Up the ante on the
complexity and the restrictions and uh
we think that's the future. So, to give
sympathy to people in the room, AI is
not proven yet. The only where places
it's really is barely working is on
things like Google and the cloud for
like search and you know machine
learning type techniques. And uh we're
saying the future of AI is on device.
It's going to be running. You're going
to have AI in your pocket and it's going
to work there and you're not going to
need a data center to do that. And
uh
we proved that we got a model working on
an i3 processor which was the darknet
system. and we got a pretty significant
enhancement in the capability and that
was the moment I knew we could sell
something. So we had we had a unit of
technology like we had a skew. So I was
like okay we have a skew we should raise
money to productize the skew. Um so we
have a technology that we think is
useful. Uh and that's the moment we
decided hey we were going to raise we
didn't raise on an idea. I think that's
really dangerous. I think that's where
founders lose control of their companies
to be honest where because you don't
have a company yet. Ideas are cheap
>> and everyone has ideas. It's just like
not that um I've never really understood
the individual's value and ideas too
much. I think the execution is actually
the hard part and delivery ideas are
just like a dime a dozen.
>> And when you say uh people lose control
of their companies just for the viewers
out there is it because they lose so
much value and equity within the company
because they it's just an idea.
>> Yeah. So like if you come to me with an
idea and you haven't done anything to
prove it, I'm taking on all the risk by
giving you capital, right? So your job
as a founder or entrepreneur is to
derisk it every day. That makes your
that means you're going to retain more.
It means that your company's worth more
and then one you'll have more customers
if you're doing that. So uh my
assessment was how do we derisk this
from day one? Let's prove it. instead of
going in with a pitch deck, let's show
them a demo of AI running on a laptop.
And that's what we did. So, um, and then
when we were to that point, um, man, we
met with a lot of funds. And I don't
want to, they have their they have their
own, uh, you know, wall of shames that
they'll have to deal with. I don't want
to, you know, uh, uh, speak poorly about
all the funds because I I love Andre and
um, and that team. Um, but when you look
at some of the funds that we met with, I
mean we met with all of the usual
suspects, it was I mean it's tough. You
have to I think statistically it's 20
nos before you even get a yes. And
that's if you have a venture backable
startup. Um, your pain tolerance as a
founder has to be extremely high. Um, I
I think that that system though is is
smart because you don't want to invest
in somebody who's not right. So the the
to even enter the arena to be a
venturebacked company if you're if
somebody's taken venture dollars, you
you can kind of do some quick napkin
math and assess that they're persistent.
>> Yeah. But I think like it's a testament
of you though as the entrepreneur cuz
you mentioned you have to take those 20
nos to be able to get a yes. And I'm
sure within a lot of those nos are some
pretty credible investors. I'm sure that
that have good track records. So then
when you are going in there and they're
telling no to your idea, that can be I'm
sure extremely discouraging. What was
that kind of moment like when you had
your first big no from somebody that
maybe you looked up to as an investor?
What was that like?
>> Oh man, it's like it's the worst thing
you could think of.
>> I mean it
>> especially all the hours you dedicated
to that company.
>> I would compare it to
a child drawing a picture and having the
parent rip it up in front of them,
>> right? It's it's if you really look up
to the person and you're meeting with,
it's it's analogous to that. It's pretty
painful. Um important though because a
lot of times they're not wrong. Um
they're not wrong in in in how they're
how they're viewing it. Now, a lot of
the funds turned out to be wrong. Um
were they wrong in the moment is a
different question. And I think there's
founders give themselves too much
credit. Um the nos help shape
businesses. The nose helps shape your
trajectory. Those those those battle
scars do help you operate, I think, with
more clarity at times. Um, I don't want
to give myself too much credit, right?
We we've got we've had some amazing
investors come in and give us yeses like
Mark Beni off invested in WebI. I mean,
Mark's amazing. So like it's not like
we've had all down on our luck, but you
have those moments and I think they
shape you, right, to be the company
that's the opposite of what they're
thinking you could be. And how did you
even initially go about meeting with
some of those massive firms like before
you were backed by very credible
investors? You know, Bernie is a
multi-billionaire. Salesforce is that's
his company, right?
>> Yep. Salesforce. How? Yeah. How do you
even go about, you know, before you were
a a credible founder and were able to
raise money and had a multi-billion
dollar valuation, how do you even go
about setting up meetings with people
like that? You
>> spend a lot of time down in San
Francisco or what?
>> Yeah, you you you stomp up and down the
street, right? You you put some miles on
your shoes
>> and you just do it. And uh a lot of cold
emails,
um showing up in uh lobbies waiting, you
know, waiting trying to catch a meeting
with somebody. Um, thankfully enough I I
I got connected right away with a
phenomenal investor. His name is David
Schuman and uh he he operates out of New
York. He's very much in stealth. Um, but
when you look at who he is and who he's
invested in, he's just a generational
investor. Um, and he'll be known um,
very well over these next few years as
some of these companies go public. But
like one of his seed or early stage
investments was the Aura Ring.
>> Wow.
>> Oh wow. So um David was one of the only
investors that heard about what we were
doing. So he was reading a report on AI
from the US government and they had
mentioned me as one of the scientists
that was doing something interesting in
the US and this was an NSA report on AI
and uh David ended up coming out to to
Michigan and um
you know took the risk and was like he
called I remember him telling me he
called some of his friends at like some
of the big funds in the Bay that he
co-invested with in the past and was
like hey I'm going out to meet this AI
scientist in Michigan and he told me a
lot of them said there you're there's no
good AI scientist in Michigan
and um what's cool is now a lot of those
people that said that are invested in
the company but at the time right it was
it takes a David Schuman it takes
somebody you every founder has their
break and that moment really turns the
tide so a lot of pounding doors a lot of
doing the right thing when no one's
um continuing to take shots on goal with
companies and customers. Customers are a
great way to get investors, right? You
you win with a customer that gets back
to people with capital.
>> And what we were seeing is we were
delivering with customers, we're driving
some interest, you get some investors
in. And once you get a really good
investor in who's a great partner,
um it gets easier to compound.
>> So, in other words, leading with results
is the best way to sell.
>> Yes, it is. Yeah. You've got you can't
just sell an idea, you got to sell uh
with delivery.
>> I'm curious, David, to get your thoughts
on, you know, we're seeing right now
more than 90% of the money in Silicon
Valley going to AI companies, but yet
there's prominent founders such as like
Alex Karp even, you know, who's recently
said that, you know, the majority of AI
companies within the next couple years
aren't going to be here.
>> Yeah.
>> Why do you think that is? And why do you
think that that is kind of an ongoing
perspective with a lot of prominent
founders, especially from somebody like
an Alex Karpin? How do you plan to defy
that?
>> Yeah. Well, Alex has a lot of opinions
on a lot of things and
just, you know, six months ago,
Palunteer was a delivery mechanism for
Anthropic. And so now Anthropic becomes
a supply chain risk and then he acts
like he never used it. Right? So I think
if you look at the facts, there's like
this reality where a lot of what Alex is
saying is true, but this is a new
epiphany. Um, and what he's saying
that's true is the foundational model
companies are not as valuable as they
say they are. And I think that's
fundamentally accurate. Why do you think
that is?
>> We've never So,
we don't value general intelligence very
highly in in markets. And general
intelligence, for example, my I don't I
don't hire people at my company that are
generalists. hire experts.
And this concept, if you'll hear me out
on this, and you can cut me off
whenever, um,
[snorts]
let's say you and I are starting
competing companies, and you have an
Opus 48 and I have Opus 48
and now the difference is I'm asking
questions that you're not asking and
vice versa. So that's the only
differentiator. now [sighs]
or
is there a future where these companies
that built the foundational models all
they did is level the playing field and
now all the values to be captured in the
specializations and I think what happens
is companies like there's no way like
you're leading the biggest the strongest
the best companies are going to use a
general foundational model that
everyone's using they're going to use
something that no one else has access to
that's highly specialized in better and
that's capitalism, right? So people are
not just because they leveled the
playing field doesn't mean that that's a
that's a real solve. All it does is it
creates a universal playing field. Now
now everyone has Opus 48 intelligence.
But how do you beat your competitor
then? You can't. So like with our
customers, we're making specialized
models. So we'll go in, we'll take tacet
knowledge like data that's not on the
internet like how do you pack chicken?
How do you manage a steel foundry? This
data just isn't out there. There's
there's formulas inside of walls of
buildings and
we're building models that know how to
do that really well, but they don't know
how to write a poem about frogs.
So, it's almost like uh are you familiar
with Harvey?
>> Yes.
>> Is it almost like Harvey where it's like
I'm solving a specific problem about a
specific industry and it's just an AI
all around law for example? It would be
like Harvey if Harvey took it a step
further and said Harvey still uses like
Open AI as a back end. So they're like
prompt engineering it and they think
differently. What makes the world
valuable? Like James, you're different
than me. You're good at things that I'll
never be good at. And likewise for me
like I'm probably a better software
engineer than you.
>> Maybe. Are you sure about [laughter]
>> I I tell you what, I I couldn't write a
line of code.
>> But now you can with AI. There you go.
There you go. uh what AI won't do is
build me uh a media empire, right? So
like there's there's things you're good
at that are just different. And
it's true for the whole room. How much
value there is in that right there cuz I
talk about this all the time like the
example that I give is like whether
people know it or not. And this is great
networking advice to people. I like to
use the example just for some reason of
like Tom Brady, right? Tom Brady's
undoubtedly the greatest football player
of all time. Michigan. Yes, there you
you can make arguments for basketball,
baseball. There's no you can't argue who
is the greatest NFL player of all time.
It's Tom Brady. However, there's
something that everyone here in this
room can probably do disproportionately
better than Tom Brady. Whether that's
writing code, maybe it's interviewing,
maybe it's content, whatever it may be.
Now, could Tom Brady smoke us in
football? Absolutely. But there's an
there could be an exchange of value if
there's something that we possess that
maybe could add value to him. So I just
think what you're saying right there,
embracing the differences that people
have is really some powerful advice,
especially if you use it.
>> You don't want intelligence to be flat,
>> right? So is the future really that
compelling? And does a free market work
when everyone's intelligence baseline is
the same? It does not. And this is why
it's so discouraging for people too.
Like super intelligence in the way it's
being described is not very attractive.
Okay, so you lose all your jobs. There's
there's like two outcomes realistically.
So one is AI is so good and it's so
general that I don't have any employees
or which I think is the most likely one
and there's some cost structures we can
talk about like from just basic
economics and why I think the second is
most likely the second is the the world
ends up owning their own models instead
of renting them. And why I think that's
the most likely option because you can
look at what happened in like the early
1900s with like the coal miners and the
coal miners rioted because they wanted
to use their own tools. Um the mining
companies didn't want them to. The
mining company was like, "Hey, you got
to use my tools." Why did they care to
own their tools? Because it was freedom.
Like if you're a contractor, you want to
own your own tools because you can go
work for anybody. And I what I think is
going to happen, you look at like Meta's
spending. Meta is spending $50,000 a
year per employee on tokens.
>> What do you mean by the tokens?
>> AI usage.
>> Okay.
>> So, per head 50,000 a year.
>> Wow.
>> How long is that going to last? What's
going to happen is Zuck is going to say,
"No, I hired you and whatever
intelligence you have to pay for is on
your dime."
>> So, what's going to happen is this idea
of foundational models doing everything
is just going to minimize. What's going
to happen is people are going to say, "I
need a cost-effective way to have
intelligence. I want to own my own IQ
points. I don't want to rent it. It
hurts rent a car or Ford Motor Company.
People get to pick. And people are going
to want to own their intelligence.
They're going to want to pass it on. So
you guys are going to have kids someday.
And James, you should be able to have an
AI model that learned you, did life with
you, like the iCloud of AI, right? And
that model should be something that you
own. It shouldn't be like switched off.
It should be on your devices. And if you
want to pass it down, your kids should
be able to talk to it.
>> Mhm. like why not that? And there's a
few reasons why not. Because they don't
want that because they want all the data
to go through those companies like an
internet company. But the good news for
us is AI is not an internet technology.
And those companies that are hosting it
in data centers are losing astronomical
amounts of money. Um and I think I think
ultimately a civilization of
intelligence is the most compelling form
of intelligence. It's like what we were
made to do. We were made to contribute,
collaborate. I think a real sign of
intelligence is the moment somebody asks
for help, right? We would almost assess
if we saw somebody try to do like
wall-mount a TV by themselves, we might
think their IQ is low,
>> but for some reason when we look at
intelligence, we say, "Oh, no. It's got
to be like centralized. It's got to be
like this one model to rule them all."
There's just no data of that and there's
no there's no natural example of that.
Guys, we're about to get right back to
the podcast with David Stout very
shortly. But before we do that, I want
to highlight some of the most important
lessons that he's telling us right now.
He's talking about how every founder
should be leveraging and using AI in
their business and the importance of
being persistent. And that's why I want
to talk today about High Level, which is
an all-in-one sales and marketing system
that we use across all of our businesses
at the school of hard knocks. It helps
you build out your calendar. It helps
you build out your business CRM. It
helps you automate your text messages
and emails. [music] And it even follows
up automatically with all of those
clients. Whether you're pitching
investors, whether you're trying to
close that big deal or you have a lot of
leads coming in organically or through
paid marketing, High Level can take care
of every bit of it. Capturing attention
is one thing. It's hard. But what's even
harder is turning that attention into
actual revenue for your business. And
that's the system that HighLevel does
for you. So waste no more time. Go down
right now, click the link in the
description of this video to start your
trial using High Level today and watch
your business change forever. With that
being said, let's get back to the
interview.
>> This is all super fascinating to me and
I love what you said about how uh you
know, you don't want to be a generalist.
Like you like jack of all trades, master
of none.
>> Yeah. And it's it's that's not what pays
into in today's world. Uh I know that
there's probably a ton of people
watching this podcast and that are in
our audience that are wanting to like
dive deeper in AI. they want to be like
they want to be part of the this the
revolution and uh obviously recommending
be a specialist. What do you think is
like the future of this industry? Uh
obviously you could probably speak to a
little bit obviously about what you're
doing but more so just like if you took
that away if you were just somebody
watching this podcast right now and like
they wanted to be like how could I
become more of a specialist with AI?
What would you recommend them go into?
like what's the best path in order to uh
that they should be looking at from like
a practical use case.
>> Uh to become an expert, you have to use
the tools. And I think we're getting
into the era where you need to take
advantage of the fact that like OpenAI
and Anthropic are letting you pay um
Uber ride sharing dollars for a Ferrari
and they're they're subsidizing your
education and your like your return to
value, right? So like you're getting a
ton of return right now for a $20
subscription. It's not costing them $20.
>> I always went around the room was like
how much would you actually pay for like
claude or chatgbt? And I think
>> realized like I don't think people will
like I think if they realize how much it
actually costs, right? So like I would
embrace the subsidies right now and just
max that out, learn as much as you can.
>> Um but what I would do in return is I
would retain my most tacid knowledge.
So, uh, WebAI is releasing a consumer
tool short shortly, which I'm really
excited to share with you guys. And, um,
that will run on your device like
download to your MacBook.
>> And it runs AI locally, but instead of
running one model, what happens is we
let people when they get onboarded, we
do something called personas. And a
persona is a new type of model that's
called a collaborative model. So, James,
you'd have a persona. I have a persona.
Uh, they they have different access to
different knowledge bases, files on my
computer. And what happens is when you
ask a question, web AI automatically
picks the combination of models to solve
the problem.
>> Yeah.
>> So if you're working on an airplane
engine or you're working on, you know,
making a coffee, the right models will
turn on at the right time. What happens
in that is the cost is absorbable
because it's all running locally. Um,
and we're only picking the right
intelligence for the right problem,
which means the results are always much
higher on a benchmark. So instead of
having a general answer, you're getting
like expert level answers. Um, so what I
would focus on if I was in the space is
I would say how do I take my task at
knowledge like what am I good at? How do
I archive that somewhere? So as the
intelligence economy gets closer and my
ability to create models becomes easier,
I can do that. I think the future we're
selling time on AI models. I'll have an
AI model that people can subscribe to.
And I think the future when we own our
own models um
it's going to be a revenue source and
it's really I think compelling for for I
think the school of hard knocks will
have its own AI model hopefully with web
AI right so you guys have your own model
and um that's a future that's really
compelling uh a future that's not
compelling is we're all renting time on
the same intelligence it kind of feels
like the matrix
>> something that people are really
concerned about is people losing their
jobs due to AI you know instead of you
know an employee be making your bowl at
Chipotle. There's a robot giving you the
perfect scoop, the perfect portions
every single time.
>> We can't have that. How are we going to
get extra
>> steak? [laughter]
A little more on that. But uh
>> hey, hook a brother up. Yeah.
>> Is Is there anything about AI that
scares you?
>> No, there's nothing about AI that scares
me. There's there's things about people
and companies that scare me.
>> What do you mean by that?
I think AI is no different than any
other technology in breakthrough. I
think the real danger is the people that
are steering it, picking its direction,
what they build with it, how they use
it. Um,
you can't regulate morality, and that's
just tough, right? And that's a that's a
real thing. And um I think that the
current trajectory we're on doesn't work
um with the big with the big dogs that
are leading right now. The good news is
the capital markets are figuring that
out. Um so I think there's some
accountability naturally happening like
there's just physics um with those
companies. They're burning too much
money.
>> So I think that that is encouraging to
see. Um, I think the best possible
future for AI is one that kind of mimics
the second amendment where um you have a
right to own AI and we should have a
right to own our own intelligence and um
a future where that's disproportionately
held by one person because they found a
way how to lobby to the like the the
government. That's concerning, right?
That so why should we trust one person?
Why should you trust me? Right? right?
Like so like why why am I entitled to be
the decider of what people get to do
with intelligence? Um at any point when
someone's virtue signaling me or telling
me that they're the ones to do it
because they know the most or they're
the most credible or they care the most
are typically the people that you would
put at the last of the line, you know,
to do that. So I think the companies
scare me, the people scare me. Um I
think the markets are figuring it out,
customers are figuring it out.
>> Yeah, you brought up the people steering
the ship. How many employees did your
first company have?
>> Just two.
>> And how many employees does WebAI have
now?
>> Around 200.
>> Around 200.
>> Yeah.
>> So, who taught you leadership? Because
if you've got, you know, 200 employees,
I want to know like how did you learn
the leadership principles to be able to
run a company with 200 employees?
>> Yeah.
>> Get co be coachable.
>> Yeah.
>> Um be humble as as humble as you can be.
Um we all have egos in some capacity.
Like it's hard to not, right? You but
you need to recognize that you have one.
And I think the the key to leadership is
to to serve your team. And I'm a big
subscriber to servant leadership. I'm a
big subscriber to the to the uh
like no one-on ones. I don't do one-on-
ones. It it's too much, right? You have
I think you lead in groups.
>> Sure. when you get to this size. So I'm
a we do in the mornings we'll have one
really important meeting a week that's
you know several hours with the leaders
across the whole company and that's peak
brain time, right? It's like somewhere
between 9 a.m. to like 11 or 12. Do you
know how fascinating it is that your
company's valued in the billions and you
only have 200 employees?
>> That's crazy, man. That's crazy. I
didn't want to [laughter] cut you off
and I was just like, man, that was that
was just running through my mind. I was
like, that's wild, man. Yeah,
>> that's one of the things about the AI
companies I think is so fascinating that
you know it doesn't have to be these
massive teams but yet I mean they can
they can do a lot
>> do a lot of damage.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so I think leading
>> for for me has been a lesson in
uh comparative advantage. So looking at
the people around me I have a great
board. I have Dane Dave Burn one of the
founding partners at Benchmark Capital.
Wow. He's on my board and he's been
amazing. you know, Bill Girly, I think
he was on. Um, so Dave's amazing guy.
Um, and he he really knows talent better
than anything. So, he's the guy I call
if I have questions about talent or
people.
>> Let's talk about that real quick because
you mentioned that in order to really
stand out, like you need to have experts
working for you.
>> So, how did you go about getting like
the best people in the space, the best
people possible to come and work with
you and build the technology for your
company?
>> Yeah, that's a great one because we I
think we do. So I got I got mentored
from the best Dave Burn worked for
Apple. Like when when Steve wanted to
hire a CEO, he called Dave Burn. So Dave
is objectively just one of the one of
the best in the world for placing
talent.
>> He helped him get Tim Cook in there or
what?
>> No. Uh I I I don't want to tell his
story for him, but he his uh his I mean
he essentially in short, you know, he's
like, "Hey, Steve, you're the CEO. Like
I'm going to hire someone you're not
going to like them, you you know, so
like the the which was the right call.
>> Awesome.
>> So like so so he was like, "No, I'm not
going to do it because you're the guy
and I'm going to pick somebody and
you're not going to like him." Yeah. And
uh so he has such an innate sense to him
and so I I feel like I've I've he's
rubbed off a small dose of Dave Burn on
me via mentoring and spending time and
um I've been able to recruit just
worldass talent. I recruited Jason Rathg
uh who was the founder of Office of
Strategic Capital at the Pentagon. Um
>> uh represented uh a massive amount of
the Department of War's budget. Um uh
and uh he came on with his whole team to
run our military team, our our defense
team.
>> Um what's that been Mike?
>> Oh man, it's been incredible. I mean,
we're doing great work. We just uh I
think uh according to uh asterisk, so
something could be wrong. It could be
incorrect here, but I think we're the
fastest growing um uh public sector team
uh in in like software that we we were
aware of ever. Congratulations.
Palanteer, Andre haven't grown faster.
Um our first year um we got a we have a
FAR12 already. U 12 means like you're
direct on we're prime we're on a prime
contract already. Um so we went to
market with the government less than a
year ago and we're already prime. Um so
uh that that business has been
incredible and uh that's been led by
Jason. He's doing a phenomenal job.
Recruited Dr. PJ Makish who uh was at
Eric Schmidt's uh SCSP. He was doing
strategic uh work there on AI
>> and brought him on to run our lab. So
learning to recruit has been persistent.
So, um, be I think if you reflect the
values you care about, people are
naturally drawn to you, one, but then
people can smell And I think
if you're incredibly consistent and you
actually say what you believe
consistently,
um, people time over time, you get these
exposures with these great people and
they're like, "Okay, he's saying the
same thing he said a year ago."
>> Mhm.
>> Um, and people are drawn to that and
been able to recruit some amazing
people. um and been able to recruit an
amazing board.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and I think if you look at a company
from the top down and you see that
expertise in the right people, it can
give you a signal of um the types of
problems we're solving cuz the people
we're attracting are just ridiculous and
it's a testament to the team and
everybody involved.
>> When when I first brought up leadership,
the first thing that you said was being
coachable. And when me and you first
met, we were in a coffee shop working
downtown Austin. Uh, and you had come up
to me and you had mentioned that we knew
someone mutually that goes by the name.
We're going to give him a big shout out
right here because I just got back from
Africa with him.
>> One of the most amazing people I've ever
met, by the way, Henry Ker. He's he's an
incredible human being. I mean, like,
you would have no idea. I mean, not to
take away from him, but I mean, this
guy's built, you know, billion-dollar
companies. He's an incredible investor
and is one of the nicest human beings.
And he's and he's a very god-fearing
man, and you can it radiates through
him. But you mentioned and I would love
for you to kind of talk about it a
little bit that he's kind of mentoring
you in that department of your life of
kind of the is is that
>> yeah Henry so Henry and I have been like
shifts passing in the night but we so uh
yes he's somebody that has been coming
to my life to be like a mentor and
haven't caught up with him in a while I
need to so Henry if you're seeing this
[laughter]
but uh no Henry is amazing and uh I
think he's a good example of servant
leadership
>> how did you guys meet initially
>> so met through a mutual So, uh, my PR
firm in DC is like really close with
him.
>> He does a lot of stuff out there.
>> Yeah. So, like, uh, if you know
Kingston, yeah, that group. So,
>> but you mentioned also he's mentoring
you also from a faith component as well.
>> Sure. Yeah, absolutely.
>> Can you touch on on your faith a bit?
Has that always been something that was
with you growing up or so? Faith has
been, you know,
my my brother became like a real
spearhead for faith in my family's life.
So, it w I feel like my family
cared about faith deeply. Um, but it
wasn't necessarily
being practiced. Um, and I remember my
parents definitely wanting to raise us
in the faith. Um, but my brother is the
person in my life that like really made
it come to life. And I started seeing
just like the value of,
you know, we have to I I start it didn't
make sense that people didn't believe in
anything.
>> And as I got older, I
>> especially in the world that you're in,
you know what I mean? Like like in the
tech world, it's it's really
non-existent.
>> No, it is. Yeah. There's not a lot of
there's not a lot of faith. And to me,
when you start to get into the
technology we're talking about and the
things we see, um, we just find more and
more evidence that we don't know
everything, right? And that there's
clearly way more to this than we see.
And, um, what's been really important
for me because I think there's there's a
lot of like bad connotations in the
marketplace with people with faith. And
I think that's like unfortunate because
you see some of the people that have
treated me the worst in business have
been people that like advertise faith
>> which is just sad.
>> And it's um and I think that there's
created like some negative connotations
like when people assess it.
>> So for me
>> when you say faith you're a Christian.
>> Yes. So like when you see when you see
um people like Henry leading by example
man nobody can say anything bad about
Henry, right? And how can you live in a
way where you're like who you are is so
universally clear that no matter what
people think of your faith or what you
believe that that your your your story
and who you are is so rooted that
there's no there's you want to be above
reproach I guess is what I'm trying to
say in short. And um I've been I reached
out to some people that I trusted
saying, "Hey, I need people in my life
that are like going to coach me and keep
me accountable." Like I want to be a
great businessman. I want to be a great
father. How do you balance all that?
Balance it without losing things, right?
And and um you've got to we can't do
this alone. And we need lots of support
and we need and I've got people that are
like those support systems and David
Schuman's a great mentor and um Henry um
we need to we need to connect more. Um
and but Henry is he does lead by
example, right? So I get to see how
Henry handles his success and that's a
good example of the way I would like to
handle my success.
>> Mhm.
>> So what's a web what's web AI excuse me
what's [clears throat] web AI doing now
and what's what do you see is coming
soon? 5 to 10 years, man. What's coming,
man? What are you building right now,
man?
>> Man, we're building a lot. Um, what
we're building that I'm most excited
about is our consumer release. I think
it's it's so important to get AI out to
everyone in the world. And AI AI out in
a way where you own it. I think it's
almost going to be shocking for people
when they get this and they have it and
that no one can like take it from them.
Mhm.
>> It's like there's no usage limit with
Web AI. Like it's not going to like
you're not going to be in the middle of
like asking to do something. You're like
a popup. It's like come back at
midnight.
>> 20 $20 more for
>> Yeah. Yeah. Come back at midnight or pay
me 40 bucks. Um
>> like that's just not going to happen.
>> So what I think is
what I think is most exciting about that
is the distribution of intelligence for
the first time is going to be like
userowned which is really exciting. And
uh when we think about releasing
products, it's always like slowest
smooth, smoothest is fast. Um we
anticipate it being out in August, which
is insane. Uh it's been a lot of work to
get that where it is. Um it's going to
run fully on your device, so no data
centers. You can you can use it in
airplane mode. Um uh some of the best
intelligence in the world.
>> When when you say it's going to run on
your device, like what does that look
like? Is that something that it's like
an app and it just runs locally on? It's
an app. Yeah, we we've done the
interface. We've done the integrations.
So, it's it's a web AI app. So, you
download it from our website. You sign
in and WebAI loads a model onto your
machine and that AI model lives on your
disk and it's there and when you boot
the app, the model turns on, you talk to
it. Um, you can create new models inside
of it. So, you can create like a a
content model, you could create a
marketing model. Um, maybe there's a
marketer that's like your favorite
marketer in the world.
um or role model. You could find ways to
create models that think that way that
could help you. Um it's really a
creators economy. Like everybody's
excited about like AI because it made
this like software. Everybody was
writing software and it was so cool.
Like want to know what's cooler than
writing software? Making AI models. And
WebAI is releasing the first app ever
that lets anybody make an AI model.
>> And it's not just like prompt
engineering. And I hate like like it's
not like the GPTs thing where like you
can like get a model that has been told
to act a certain way. It's like
genuinely we're shipping you a tool that
makes AI models on your laptop.
>> Wow.
>> And you can share them with the world.
Um so I'm really looking forward to
that. And uh um I think that that is
going to be a real gamecher for the
world. And we've never launched a
consumer product. All of our revenue and
customers have been either in the public
sector or the commercial space. So
opening up a new market for us is an
awesome opportunity. We live down here
in downtown. We live in Austin, Texas.
And you also have some exciting news
that happened recently is that you got
your your company on one of the biggest
buildings downtown.
>> One of the biggest. Yeah. Pretty
awesome.
>> Congratulations, man. How did that even
come about, man? That's that's everybody
I think's goal and like dream is one day
to have their logo, their company name
on on the side of a on the outside of a
building, man. So that's is and the
building I mean that you soon as you
brought it up and showed us, we knew
exactly, you know. So that's amazing,
man. How did that come about? Yeah, it's
a it's a lesson in um making sure you
ask, right? So, uh, the story goes, uh,
moved down to Austin, needed to find
office space and didn't need a ton of
space, but needed enough to bring a
small team of 20 and, um, started
looking around and found a place out,
uh, that was out down south of Congress
and walked through, did a couple tours,
very interested. It looks really rund
down, so I'm like, great, this is going
to be cheap. They show me and it's a
million dollars a year. A
>> million dollars.
>> Yeah. And I'm like, "Okay, there's no
there's no way we could do it. It's just
an empty warehouse, but it's in like
this really cool like graffiti area and
it like looks very startupy and startups
like to pay for things that look cheap."
Um, but I was like, I'm not going to
spend a million dollars to look like I'm
spending 20, you know, like that's not a
good idea. It's just not a good good
decision for us right now. And plus, we
didn't have the money, which is an also
good factor. Um, so, uh, looked around,
found, uh, a office space where a
company had gone bankrupt. So, it was
essentially like open and they left all
their stuff in there. So, there's
furniture everywhere. One, that's a win.
Furniture is expensive. So, went through
and, uh, talked with my my chairman, uh,
David Schuman, and was like, "Hey, I
think we can get this space." So, worked
a deal. He's like, "Get it as long as
you can." Um, so I was like, Made an
offer for 10 years. Um, and they
accepted it. And what I asked is if I
grew to a certain amount of square feet
in the space if they would give me
naming rights and sign on the building.
And they said, "Yeah." And um there's
either two realities at play here. One,
they thought, "Man, we really like this
guy and we're going to get let him put
his sign on our building." Or two, which
I think is the most likely, there's no
chance that's ever going to happen.
>> Yeah.
>> And so it's it's a it's a good story.
And like always ask and make ridiculous
asks because sometimes when they're so
ridiculous um people will accept them
because they don't think they're going
to happen. And um you need to live with
that like radical mentality that you're
going to make ridiculous things happen.
>> You got to be a little delusional is
what you're saying.
>> Yes.
>> And getting on a boat and fly uh getting
on a boat and flying would be
delusional, but getting on a boat and
going across uh the world and finding
this place is pretty delusional,
>> right? Um, I mean there's the the best
things we've ever done uh takes them
crazy.
>> Yeah, that that that was that was a good
right there. Damn, that was good. So,
David, you're you're one of the smartest
AI minds that I've ever gotten to talk
to, listen to and learn from. You know,
obviously I've talked to you before. You
spoke to our entrepreneur community as
well. What I want to kind of ask is I
want to come
>> down here for your your everyday
business owner. If we could kind of give
them just three to five very practical
takeaways on how they could be
leveraging AI in their businesses right
now, what are what are some takeaways?
Some things that you would im
immediately be implementing into their
companies if they're not doing already.
Yeah, I would be I would be buying
consumer commercial hardware that is
lowcost where I can start putting as
much AI workload on my infra as possible
and because right now what's happening
is a lot of small businesses are getting
bottlenecked by uh token limits and rate
limits. So, um, if you're not familiar
with tokens, when you're when you're
buying AI right now as a as a small
business or a user,
>> you say buying AI, that's like
subscribing to the platform.
>> If you're if you're buying time on a on
on a with a tool, if you're if you're if
you're subscribed with a monthly
membership or an annual membership, um,
you're you're going to have a cost
structure that's a base license, which
is essentially I have to pay this no
matter what. But then they have these
variable triggers where you're buying
time and that's what I mean by uh tokens
and um a way to way to to offset that
risk right now is actually locally
hosting. And a lot of companies are
starting to do this and it's really
compelling and it's powerful. They'll if
you saw like the openclaw moment where
people were buying Mac minis and
automating all this task uh think about
it in an enterprise sense where now you
can buy uh a couple Apple studios put
them in your office space and those can
be on 24/7 and have you can have them
running AI tasks and um I think it's
better to experiment if you're just
getting into AI it's better to
experiment in lowcost vectors right
where like I'm I'm experimenting on
compute on prem so you're only real cost
is your electricity and the buying the
machine and if you're a small business
um that machine will go to use whether
you decide you want to keep running AI
on it or not. So it's a fairly low risk.
So a couple of great companies I know
now are starting to migrate to that and
it seems to be an just like a it's
around a corner in the next in the next
3 months. Enterprises are going to like
a lot of these machines are going to be
sold out. So I would do it now, right? I
would I would go um get access to the
hardware now. Um, and I think there's
going to be a massive amount of people
moving uh to local and there'll be more
there'll be more um uh demand for that.
>> And what in the world is a data center
for the people that don't know
>> how how I want you if you could break
because you know again I want to be
clear that you know there's a lot of
people that you know maybe consume
different types of content obviously the
high level entrepreneur but everybody's
hearing left and right about data center
but for those that don't understand I
mean they're popping up everywhere. How
would you kind of describe that to
people? Yeah, data center is a
centralized like uh compute center. It's
a it's a computer that's the size of a
building, right? So, it's a it's a
massive computer uh that requires
incredible cooling um and electricity
and power. So, so that data center is uh
view it as an endpoint where if I ask
chatbt that has to get processed
somewhere. So, all of that processing is
taking place at that data center. Um,
>> it's powering the AI.
>> It's powering, it's what the AI actually
operates on. The AI lives on that data
center.
>> You know what this feels like to me is
you remember the early computer and how
they were massive. Like it would take up
an entire it'd probably take up the
entire size of this room. The early
computer, that's what data centers feel
like today.
>> Yeah, it's a horrible mistake.
>> And it feels like genuinely web AI is
literally attacking that same problem.
It's so even if webi didn't exist like
and I was doing something totally
different.
Somebody needs to solve this problem.
Hey people are fed up.
>> It's no real quick. I want to talk about
this. Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Families based in Northern Virginia.
Yeah.
>> Virginia is a very historical era area.
You know, you got Civil War data center
on that.
>> You got Civil War battlefield.
>> Throw a data center on it.
>> Exactly. You got the Manasses
battlefield on
>> Josh. What happened? What happened to
your you know your mom?
>> Yeah. Well, okay. My mom's uh my mom
worked at a garden center.
>> Oh, no.
>> And it was a I don't know, probably like
40 acres or something like that and it
got bought out outright for I think $160
million just like the land. And they're
like, "Yeah, don't care about the garden
center. We're just knocking it down."
And they just data center. And like
Virginia, Northern Virginia is the data
center capital of the world right now.
It is literally crazy. you'll see Civil
War Battlefield data center. It is
insane.
>> It's horrible. Um you can almost picture
like you have a they're doing it in in
like uh rural areas like for farms too.
It's like you need a data center to
power your John Deere tractor and it's
like you the data center is killing the
cornfield. So like there's like they're
competing they're competing metrics and
it is like I the photo that comes to my
mind have you ever seen the spool of
like one megabyte of memory or kilobyte
coming off an airplane? I gotta look it
up.
>> So there there's like a crane and it's
like a big spool and it's one like
kilobyte or something ridiculous. And so
>> yeah, I would say we're making a poor
investment as a country if we continue
to do that. And we need to be super
careful because um
uh the analogy I like to use is um
when we think about AI or computer any
kind of technology do you guys are you
guys familiar with Union Pacific and
what they did.
>> Uh
>> no for I mean I'm sure the the viewer
isn't so I would I'll explain.
>> Yeah. So, Union Pacific is uh was an
early railroad company and I love this
story because um it's really it's almost
relatable to any kind of breakthrough in
technology. Um Union Pacific wanted to
lay rail everywhere across the whole
country and they did and it was super
important because how are you going to
get from New York uh to California
without rail? Um
why did why does Union Pacific not take
care of our travel today?
Planes don't fly worth of I mean,
trains don't fly worth of So, you
have you have you have these planes that
come out, Wright Brothers and Kittyhawk
working on new technology. And then
Union Pacific is telling the world,
uh, we need we need more railroad. We
need more railroad. Now, what do we use
railroad for today? Bike trails.
So, like there's a real there's like
real rhythm here of what we're seeing.
And like the bet we're making with data
centers is not only a risky one, but
it's it's a bet that is really unlikely
to be like
uh a a core of our society and like you
buy a laptop, you change it in 3 years.
So we're going to build all these data
centers and we think they're going to be
there for a while. Like we're just
destroying a lot of jobs. And and
>> if anything, there's got to be a better
solution like whether it's putting them
in the ocean or like [laughter]
>> you know, put them in space, you know.
>> Yeah. I I mean, or what happens is
you're you're you get so efficient that
you don't need them.
>> So, I think I think it's a I think it's
a big risk.
>> Well, David, this has been an incredible
conversation. Uh we like to end our
podcast off with two quick questions for
our guest. I'll start. Jack will finish
this off. But you know, David, if me and
you were to die tomorrow, if everybody
in this room were to were to pass away
and you could leave us and the younger
generation with one last message right
here, what would that be?
That's a hard question.
>> Yeah. But easy enough, I guess. Uh would
learn to listen to God and listen for
God. So you need to learn to detect that
voice.
>> How did you do that? How did how do you
do that?
I think you can I think that we all have
moments where we hear like really
clearly and it's not like an audible
voice. It's not like schizophrenia, you
know, it's like
>> but it's like when you know we have we
know what's right and we know what's
wrong like you need to learn to listen
for that. Um so you can identify that.
>> Why did why did you choose Christianity
as your religion or for the uh you know
for the for what you ultimately follow?
I think that
it's the only
it's the only
religion. It's not a rel it's a
relationship. It's the only it's the
only thing that's been real. Like it's
it's fundamentally real.
>> So, um it's not like I went to try to
practice another religion, but um it was
it was revealed to me, right? Right. And
it was something that fundamentally made
sense and continued to make sense as I
studied it. And um I'm not the smartest
guy in the world by any means, but I I
like to dig in and learn and read. And
there's not there's not a lot of um
a lot of these books fall apart. That
one doesn't.
>> Mhm. I love it, man. Thank you, man.
Appreciate that.
>> And David, building an incredible
company, amazing relationships for you.
When it's all said and done, how do you
want to be remembered?
I want to be remembered as
somebody who deeply cared about
people and loved people deeply and
treated people with respect and loved
his country. And um
everything that I wake up in the morning
for and do, I want to I really do want
to see the the US win. I want to see
individuals win. And I don't think we're
going to win on the current path we're
on. And I want to win. And I want us to
win, not for not for like my lifetime or
our lifetime, but I want um I want to be
remembered for somebody who fought that
fight so we could have, you know, a
future that's compelling. I want I want
to be remembered for somebody who cared
about the next generation. Powerful
answer, my man. On that note, man,
that's a wrap on today's episode. If you
enjoyed the episode, like and subscribe
for amazing content coming every week to
the Hardnox podcast because we're
bringing the most incredible minds and
business owners from all over the world
right here to the Hardnox podcast. We're
going to put the links down in the
description for you to follow along with
David and his journey, his social
handles, his websites for you to learn
everything you can about Web AI and the
incredible work that they're doing. And
we're also going to put a link down in
the descriptions to get access to the
school of mentors, which is the number
one entrepreneur community in the entire
world, where every week we give you
direct access to our millionaire and
billionaire network, where we host live
calls with the 8, 9, 10, and 11
figureure entrepreneurs that we
interview at the school of hard knock.
So, we can't wait to see you on the
inside. With that being said, we'll see
you in the next