(soft upbeat music) - Hey everyone, I'm Alexandra Gonzales. I'm here with Robert Kiyosaki. We're filming a new segment
called Millennial Money, and it's for all the
millennials that wanna apply the Rich Dad philosophy
on their day-to-day basis. So, Robert, what's the purpose of you doing this for millennials? - Why, because I'm concerned. I've said it several
times during this series, that I've had it really easy. I graduate from school, there was a lot of high paying jobs, stock markets going up,
real estate markets. Real estate prices were really cheap. You could buy a condo for
$18,000 on the beach in Maui! You know, today you don't do that, because the government has
mismanaged our economy. And so you guys, younger guys, you have to be 10 times smarter than me. So I'm willing to pass
on what I know to you, because what I see
happening for you guys is, I hate to say this, but
you guys are in trouble. And that's because, not my generation, but the generation before, is leaving a horrible economy for you. So if you're not, even
if you go to college, it doesn't guarantee you'll do well. So this is what I see
coming in the future. (paper rustling) So the big thing for most millennials, they're gonna say they'll
want to stay here, they'll want to stay here, and I would start there. Become a professional investor. It's not easy, gotta study a lot, but this is what I see coming. Okay, the financial statement
is the balance sheet. What I'm concerned about
for the millennials, okay? So here we have M for millennials. There's a lot of you. But over here we have, today, boom, baby boomers, me. And what's gonna happen is that, it's gonna be the flow of people. These guys are gonna flow over here, and you'll be producing the income to pay the taxes and all this. These guys are gonna come over here. We're gonna be the biggest
liabilities you've ever seen. They estimate that, and nobody knows the real number, but the estimations are, this bill for all the social programs,
the welfare programs, all the social security,
retirement plans, and all this, is estimated to be $265 trillion. You guys are gonna have to pay for that. So, when old guys like me move over here, and you guys take over the economy here, what's gonna happen is, go up. You have to pay taxes
to pay for these guys. So that's why when I speak
to young people about this I kind of joke around
and things like this, but this is a massive, massive, massive, massive social problem. You know, if your mother and father had no money, what would you have to do? You'd have to pay for 'em, right? - [Gonzales] Yeah. - Can you afford their
healthcare right now? - I don't think so. - You know how I cut my
finger here two years ago. The bill was $34,000 for one stitch. $34,000. That's where this comes,
that's their estimate. They don't know how much this is gonna be. Total with all the
national debt and all this. And as we're talking, they can't balance. They need to extend the budget to pay for our bills and all this, and it's only gonna get worse. So when I speak to your generation, our generation had it really easy. We're gonna cruise over here. You guys have had it pretty hard, and it's gonna get worse, is my opinion. So that's why the idea of go to school, get a job or a car, and save money, get out of debt, put in a 401K, that was my generation. Didn't work for us, but you guys are gonna try the same thing. Any comments for you? - So the 265 trillion, is
that gonna be taxed on us? - Well, somebody's gotta pay for it. See, what they say is the
national debt is like 22 trillion or something like that. It's not. It's when you, this is called off-balance, this is off-balance sheet. When they say off-balance
sheet accounting, this is not registered here. This is Social Security,
Medicare, old age pensions, all this, all the people
my age who can't take care of themselves, somebody's got to pay for them. You know, they claim
it's only 26 trillion, but when they go off-balance sheet, it's 10 times that. And most people, oh, you don't know what you're talking
about, I say I may not, but I think that's true. Okay? So the reason you, your
generation, millennials, have to be smarter, is you
guys are just coming this way. - Yeah, definitely. - And some of you can't even find jobs. So it's all my baby
boomer friends that said, well, what happens if
these guys disappear? And they're, oh don't tell me about that, Social Security'll take care of me. Well, who's gonna pay for Social Security? Who'll pay for Medicare? Who'll pay for Medicaid? Who's gonna pay for national defense? Who's gonna pay for all the national debt? And that's why our school system, our government leaders, have done a horrible,
horrible, horrible job. They should be fired for incompetence! Malpractice! So that's why BridgeTech
Company was chartered, you know, 20-something years ago, is this is basic education on the B and the I side, E and S's don't need this, but you guys do. So that's why the BridgeTech
Company was formed is, you have to understand this. And so the people who are, like I was talking about,
they're going to be E's, S's, B's, and I's. These guys are gonna pay for it, here. These guys are gonna skate past it. You know, the last Trump,
the last Trump just passed that tax reform plan or whatever it is. The tax benefits are
permanent for these guys. It's temporary for these guys:
employers and self-employed. So I'm gonna pay less taxes. For about 10 years their
taxes will be lower, then they're gonna raise 'em. I promise you. Because they gotta pay for this. Okay? Any comments about why you need to be more financially savvy as a millennial? - As you mentioned, as big
as the debt is gonna be, I think us as millennials, the economy's not the same as it is today. And we have to be prepared
for the increase in taxes, and everything else that comes with it, and so it's our responsibility to become financially educated, and make sure that we don't
make the same mistakes as baby boomers. - If I was a millennial, I definitely wouldn't wanna
be an E and S right now. Because the tax breaks, the
advantages, the leverage, I can expand my means, you know, like I'm living below them, but then I can expand
my means pretty rapidly. And especially today, with
the Internet and all this, you can do very well, very
quickly, you know, fast. But not if you're thinking
like the old guys, like these guys. So you have a very huge advantage here, but unfortunately these
guys are in your way. Okay?
- Yeah. - [Kiyosaki] Comments? - Oh, no, I'm fine. - Good, so that's why financial education for millennials is very important. That's why the BridgeTech Company. I'm grateful for you
asking these questions, so I can pass the message on. - Thank you so much, Robert. - Thank you. 