Trading is supposed to be a lone wolf
pursuit. That's the image everyone has in their head. One trader, one screen,
one great trade. If you've ever read Reminiscences of a Stock Operator, you
probably imagine Jesse Livermore standing there reading the tape, seeing
something nobody else can see. That mythology is part of what pulls a lot of
us into trading in the first place. But the reality, at least for me, has been
very different. Some of the best trades I've ever been a part of didn't come
from one brilliant idea. They came from collaboration.
One trader finds the signal, another trader digs into the catalyst. Someone
else reads the tape and says, "This is working."
And suddenly an idea that started small turns into a fully formed trade that
none of us would have executed the same way alone.
Last week at our firm's trading summit, I gave a talk about this exact idea. The
power of collaboration and why the best trading teams often outperform the lone
wolf model. The response from the room was incredible, and it made me realize
how many traders are still trying to do everything themselves. So, today we're
going to unpack that topic a little more. What makes a great trading team?
How do different cognitive strengths actually complement each other? And if
you're trading alone right now, how do you start building the kind of
collaboration that can actually improve your results?
Welcome back to the Trading Floor podcast. I'm Garret Drinan. I'm here
with Tim and Curt, as always, behind the scenes. So, Tim, what's going on, man? I
I want to ask you a question right away because you were not at the summit.
You were skiing in Colorado, which I'm not going to hate you for cuz that's
that sounds like a pretty good deal. Um
but you actually have like you didn't you didn't hear my speech, you weren't
there. Um but you know a lot about this subject. In fact, I think you might know
more than anybody on the subject because I've seen you through the course of your
career here at SMB collaborate with probably more people than I've ever seen
anyone collaborate with. And some of these have worked out great, and some of
them have not. And so, I want to ask you, what do you think makes a
successful trading collaboration?
>> Yeah, you're definitely right. I have experience with team trading. And just
to mention too, you know, we're on a team together and we're trading every
single day. First off, congrats on the summit, both
you and Kurt. Heard it was a smashing success. Um, and I actually brought some
questions for you too to dive into it. >> Great. We did.
>> what makes What makes a good collaboration like
one right off the bat, you do want to be trading similar playbooks.
And you don't necessarily have to have the exact same playbook or exact same
style of trading, but you do need some cohesion on what you're trading.
But you want to have differing strengths. And I think that's the
biggest thing where you want it to have each person bringing
something new to the table. And in a certain trade, like you said in
the intro, different aspects that they are the best
at, and they could really take lead on. So, right off the bat, I would say those
are the two biggest. And along with that, you want people that,
you know, are hungry. You want decision-makers.
You want people who want the ball in their hands.
Um, but I could go on and on. But I would say the two biggest right off the
bat is similar playbooks. You're watching the
same stuff, and you have very defined setups within your team playbook. And
then differing strengths that together make a great team.
>> All right. So, you mentioned the differing strengths thing, which I think
is huge. You You men- mention communication skills, which I think is
a huge one that will you know, we'll get to. I'll ask you
about that because I think that's big. Um but back to the differing strengths.
Now, at the summit I talked about the fact
that some of us are really great at
high bandwidth. Like we can manage a lot of information at once, we can manage a
lot of positions at once. Some of us are very quick thinkers.
Right? We can we can process information really quickly. Some of us are
analytical. We can go really deep. Some of us are great idea generators.
Some of us are great trade and risk managers.
Some of us can execute really well. Some of us understand the narrative
better than anybody else, right? It is really hard
to be elite at all of those things.
Right? Like you're at I mean, we we want to be elite traders. That's what we're
doing here. But
I would argue that you don't have to be elite at every single one of those
categories to be an elite trader the same way that if you're in the NBA,
like if you're an elite rebounder and defender, like you don't have to be an
elite scorer. You you you could be okay, right?
That's it's the same thing, right? And so my argument for why every single
trader should consider at least
trying to form some pod or some relationship or some collaboration.
We'll get into why, like how we'll get into like how to do that.
My argument is that is that like you don't have to be the best at all of
those categories. You could just be the best at what you're the best at and then
go find people who are the best at those other things.
Um So
that's my that's my little like salesman pitch for this idea. Like if someone
were to come and and ask me like, hey, like why why is why are we even talking
about this? Like this is why for me. >> Do you want to sit in on all of our
daily and weekly in-house trader meetings? There's no bigger edge retail
traders can get. Visit smbtradingfloor.com
to learn more. >> And I mean, we've related to to the 90s
Bulls with Jordan, Pippen, and Rodman. And it's the perfect analogy, too. You
didn't need Rodman taking three-pointers. You didn't need him
bringing the ball up the court. You needed him to rebound, and he was the
best at rebounding. Yeah, and we'll like we'll often when
we're ironing out team dynamics
like you'll often bring up this analogy, right?
>> All the time. >> The Chicago Bulls like, okay, if we're
the Bulls, like if somebody is going rogue,
right? And they maybe they need to do their thing.
Um we're like, okay, well, you know, that's that's Rodman going to Vegas.
Like we like we can be okay with Rodman going to Vegas. We just have to make
sure that Rodman comes back and and rebounds.
>> Rebounds. >> Right? Like And so, it's kind of
interesting cuz you are kind of thinking about like the sports team
dynamic. And so, what would you say to somebody,
Tim, like at home who either trades alone, doesn't doesn't
trade on a team, maybe they maybe they want to get a team going, right?
Maybe they have tried, but it's failed. It hasn't stuck, right? Which totally
happens. It's happened to all of us. Um what would you say to that person?
Like in terms of A, how important is it to think about this,
right? Cuz we see this at our firm, and barely anybody trades alone, and and the
best traders that I know don't do it alone.
But what would you say to them in terms of like how to go about this? Because
obviously like we're at a trading desk, um we have the luxury of
being in a room with other traders, and we can develop those
relationships. You know, and you're remote most of the
time, so you've had to actually go out of your
way to kind of do that, but we're at a firm.
If you're not, what would you do? >> Yeah, 100%. Before I forget, too, the
communication, I purposely didn't mention it, cuz let's really dive into
that later. Cuz I mean, I haven't brought that up to us today, so I'm
in on that, but uh if I was a retail trader right now, and
I'm trading solo, haven't ever had a team, like it does
take putting in effort to be able to find a team. Um it's not
going to just be like a team falls in your lap, you get an email one day, you
want to join this trading pod. And there are many ways, like we do live
in a digital world, so like you can go on Twitter, FinTwit is like
pretty good community. There's like a lot of trolls, so like it kind of could
be scary going on Twitter or X, and trying to reach out to people. Um
but that is one route where you start, you know, finding people you trade
similar to, and you start commenting or replying.
Um but that can be intimidating. There are a lot of trolls on there. So
like, as a starting point, we're coming off doing our mentorship program, like
like SMB does provide the inside access programs, which I would say is a great
spot to start, because you're already then in a room of like-minded traders
who are then listening to professional traders on the desk, and you at least do
start getting that community. >> Would you like to gain the biggest edge
a retail trader can get? All of our daily and weekly in-house trader
meetings are now available to you. Just head over to smbtrainingfloor.com
to find out more. >> And from there you can then like you
look at who's in the meetings and you're like, all right, like, you know, Steve
and Tom, I I see them in all of these Bionic Trader meetings.
>> Yeah, and some some people in the meetings are going to be participating
and speaking up and then we have the Discord channel that is associated with
the Inside Access or or the particular Bionic Trader meeting on Tuesdays. Like
there's a if you're part of Inside Access, you're
in the Discord and there's a Bionic Trader channel and everyone's in there
sharing indicators and you know, if I share an indicator,
someone might create it for a different platform and then share it there and
then people are kind of working together, right? So, it naturally
develops and and I think you nailed it because one of the things I said at the
summit is that like look around,
you know, everyone traveled to get here. Everyone paid money to get here. Clearly
everyone here is serious about this. Like we're running a business. That's
what we do as traders, right? We're investing in our future. So, we're we're
investing. So, part of that investment might be
um traveling and and paying some money to go to a summit, to go to Traders for
a Cause, right? To go to one of these places
where you not only get to hear people speak about trading, but you get
to then have the the functions afterwards where there's a happy hour,
there's a lunch, there's you know, there's breakfast, there's all this time
where everyone's kind of mingling and that's the time to collaborate. So, you
know, I was like, look around, this that's pretty powerful knowing that
everybody here cares a lot about getting better. So, I
think finding those forums and those environments
where you know that everyone partaking in, you know, this particular endeavor
is committed, that's a great sort of filter to find people to collaborate
with. So, Inside Access, great program for that. Going to something like the
Summit, Traders for a doesn't have to be like an SMB thing. There's there's
plenty of um
like summit type things. Like Trader for Cause is a big one, and we have people
there, you know, speaking on our behalf, but
there's there's also people outside our firm, of course, involved with that.
>> And this really comes down to networking.
Like, I know for my own career at SMB, like, it really is not a coincidence
that I've collaborated with a ton of different traders and had a lot of
different joint accounts, uh cuz it reminds me of my days in
college where I was networking like absolute crazy. And like, networking is
a skill. It's become like a buzzword, but it does take effort emailing,
reaching out, and just doing it to learn. Like, I think
that's the big thing, too, where it's like,
you don't want to network where it's automatically,
"Do you want to join this team?" The best collaborations really happen when
there's a mix of like one person really trying to learn and trying to be a
sponge from the other, and then you, at the same time as you're networking,
adding value. And that's really where collaborations
form. Like, I think of my early days at SMB,
even like me and you when we started working together, it always started from
like, "Hey, I've been working on this project that I think could add value."
And then it's like, "Okay, you're working on a similar project." And then
you start talking more. And from that, a team or a pod forms.
>> Yeah, it's it's the it's the same The the the analogy would be like,
you're a musician, and rather than going around to other
musicians being like, "Hey, you want to be in my band? You want to
be in my band?" You're just saying like, "Hey, you play
drums. Like, I've got this song idea. I just want to cut this one song."
Can we just do this? And then it's like, "Okay, like, let's let's go over this
one song. Okay, that was that was a blast." And that was really good
chemistry. Maybe we should do more songs, right? And then that turns into
an album and then all of a sudden you're a band. Like you and I were working on I
think we were trying to dissect earnings plays. We're like, "Hey, we're both
interested in these earnings plays. How can we study this more? Maybe we
should join forces." And then that turned into Once we did
that, we were like, "Well, we could do other things." And then before you know
it, we're working on a team. So, what I want to know, Tim, is can you tell me or
I want to know an instance where being on a team was really powerful.
Like, I want to know something that never could have happened if it weren't
for a team. And then I also want to know about an instance where
a team did not work out and why. >> Yeah, honestly, the first place my mind
goes is with our current team now and how we trade IPO day ones.
Where pretty much the way it ended up happening was we have a guy on our team
that has experience trading IPO day ones. Personally, I usually did not
trade them right off the open. And I would wait for price action to settle
down, you know, they're very quick tape right off the open. So, that was always
a playbook when I started off that I was like, "All right, I'm going to master
stuff that comes more easily to me, more aligned with my strengths, and then
later down the road maybe add this into the playbook." So, then you join a team
and one guy has a lot of experience trading these discretionarily.
And at the same point, we have four guys on the team. Like I said, they're really
quick off the open. And my background is like I've done a
lot of quant work and I've made a lot of single stock scripts. So, then I come in
and it's like, "All right, how do you make this a little easier and automate
it?" And then we get our automated offers that we put up.
And at the same point, then we have um two other guys on the team, like you and
Cam, where I think with the IPOs, like
the hardest part with the trade is that they're rare. Like the really A+ ones
are very rare. And it becomes difficult trading every single one. And that's
another area where I think everyone having an opinion on the checks in favor
of this IPO, how oversubscribed it is, what's the demand like, is it opening
above pricing, like it helps having multiple opinions
on that. Because the one guy with a lot of
experience traded a ton of IPOs. But not every IPO was an A+ joint trade
for us. >> Yeah, so he might not have had the the
same filtering aspect, but he has the the insight.
>> Exactly. >> he's one he's wanting to look at all of
these instances and kind of understands the player presenting this
this world to us, right? And we're we're learning about it. And
and you know, the more we learn about it, the more we kind of figure out how
to filter these down and find the good ones. And to your point, it was like you
found a way to use the technology to help us. Cuz you're like, okay, there
can be a there can be a script that buys this thing cuz it's really fast. And I
remember one on one of the instances we were looking for,
you know, it's an IPO day one. Like there's no price levels, there's no
prior volatility to go off of. We just have the pricing, we've got the the
underwriters, the volume, the story. So I remember we were kind of like,
okay, if we're right, where do we sell this thing? Like where where our targets
going to be? And you went back immediately and then back-tested
a bunch of these trades for like you went back like three or four years,
found all the instances of the of the good ones. And you said and you came
back and you said, well, when these really work well, it
usually goes, you know, up like this much percent. So for this one it would
be like right around here. And we're like, okay, that's good enough.
We put offers up there and it went right to it.
>> Yeah. >> I mean it was kind of like like too
good, like of course, but it was a great instance where this kind of wasn't your
playbook. But then we joined together and all of a
sudden like we had you back testing these targets and and it really helped
us. >> Here's a mind-bending stat for you. SMB
traders have 20x to 40x higher odds of success than independent traders.
Find out why and how to greatly increase your odds by visiting
smbtradingfloor.com. Honestly, let
>> me set the scene cuz it's kind of fun. It it very much was
kind of like you can write it in a movie, but we're talking about uh
Bullish, BLSH, which IPO'd on August 13th last year.
And basically it opens at 85. And we're talking as a team, four of us,
before this opens, we're watching the auction. It's in the right sector. IPOs
are hot. We're thinking this is a potential A or A+ day one.
So, we have one guy on the team who puts in our like order for the open.
And then before this IPO, we just saw Coreweave, we just saw Circle go. I
back-tested a bunch of IPOs to see, yeah, on average, on day one, what does
that initial move look like? And at the same point, Shane was
back-testing for how much to give the stop because we don't have price levels.
So, then we're like, all right, it's like 5% you can give the stop, something
around there. And then it opens and immediately we're
in. And then we have Cam on the team where we're looking to then add to the
position with aggressive like orders. We add to the position. You put in our stop
at low of day. I put out the offers and it goes right to our offers. It gets
hit. Um ends up fading hard and it closed the day, let's see, I'm looking
at the chart, like 67. And I I honestly it was like the best
example of a well-oiled machine working together.
>> Yeah, that felt good. I remember I remember thinking that that's a perfect
example of like when the when the day closed
and we had made that trade I was like I I would never have done
that by myself. Not in a million years.
And that that's that's sort of that's a bandwidth thing because we were
covering a lot of bandwidth with the four of us. I mean obviously
we're trading together. Now to be on a team, to be on a pod, you don't have to
be actually trading a joint account. You could just be
communicating, right? But that still covers a lot of bandwidth because people
are calling out trades, calling out names. Like someone
might be really good at seeing something on the tape.
Um like we've we kind of have that too, right? We're
you know, Cam's great at these tape moments and like I love it when he calls
out things on the tape. Um but this was really a situation where we were we were
leveraging the different strengths of the team
to kind of come together on this trade and do something that I don't I don't
think like any one of us could probably do
alone. You know, I know I couldn't.
>> Yeah, I completely agree. >> Yeah.
>> And then on the flip side so now like some of the
tougher times with joint accounts and collaborations
where I've found it becomes troublesome is in in the past too I've had a couple
pods where it was just two of us. And if you're not very aligned on your
playbook the frequency you want to trade, the selectivity that goes into
your playbook and what I'm really getting at is if you don't have a
process for how you guys are grading setups
it could become very difficult. Where I had one joint account Um and with this
we had success. And uh
pretty much we had success and we kind of strategy hopped a little bit. And
nothing was that defined and there was a moment um
and I'm talking about the first one I had as well.
>> Mhm. >> Um without saying any names. But
there was a moment where it felt to the other partner that he
kept giving ideas. And it was only two of us and he's so
passionate about these trades and it was like five or six trades a day. And it
was very low risk to reward kind of like 1.2 to 1, 1.5 to 1 and very active
scalping trades. And at the same point I'm there with a very different style of
trading like being very selective, kind of waiting for the fat pitches and I'm
not trying to be involved in the scalping.
But with only two of us, you have one that's super convicted. It's very easy
to then just lean on that and be like, all right, yeah, like yes to this trade,
yes to this trade. And it becomes difficult because
at the same point you yourself are like, we're trading too much. But the other
guy thinks this account is a scalping account. And at the same point he's
right if he thinks it's a scalping account and I'm right if I think we're
waiting for an A or A+ trade. Or like a big higher time frame breakout.
And what ended up happening was it was like pretty much like death by a
thousand cuts. Where like we ended up just kind of over trading the account to
its end. >> Yeah.
Okay, so the main point being that you want to
align your playbooks. And you could still have those different
strengths, but like how how did you take in that and made it successful? Like
knowing what you know now, cuz that was early on in your
>> This was super early on. >> um
career, right? So, like knowing what you know now, like you
guys clearly had different strengths. And that's good. Like we want to you
want to have complementary strengths, one of the things that we talked about
the summit. But you also want to have a common
playbook and a common process. So, you need to you need to align somewhere.
Like you pointed out in the very beginning of this story. So, how if you
had to do it all over again, what would you do? differently.
>> And I think now that I'm thinking back to this, like the main takeaway is
you're on a team. You obviously respect and trust the
other guys on your team. But there's a point where like you can't
be afraid to turn down ideas, even if someone else on the team is super
convicted. Where it's not it's a good thing to have
an idea brought to you and be like, I just don't see it. This isn't a joint
trade. Like that's perfectly okay. Or grading it and you're like, this is a C
trade to me and the other guy thinks it's an A.
And for you, you're like, all right, C. I don't want to take C trades anymore.
And he thinks it's an A and like maybe you find a middle ground or you just say
this isn't a joint trade and you can always take it on personal. Like I think
where we went wrong was
almost just it became a group think where it's like you value the other
person's ideas so much where you're like, all right, yes, yes, yes, yes. And
at the same point like by me doing that, I wasn't bringing my
strengths to the table, which was selectivity. Really knowing the playbook
in like trading only with
only trading setups that we both have conviction in.
And there was a way if I were to redo it where his strengths
and we were very systematic also like very much like entry target stop raise
stop like it was super systematic and it could have worked in the right trades in
the right opportunities and we were spreading ourselves too thin
across so many opportunities that we thought the strategy the way of
execution didn't work but it did work on specific trades.
Does that make sense? >> 100% so I would say
you mentioned something group think which is a common term but it's part of
the communication bucket in my eyes because
if you're just in this this is true for like if you just have a trading pod like
you don't have to like I said you don't have to have a joint account for this
stuff to be relevant it gets magnified when you're trading a joint account
which you know sometimes we do at the firm.
Um and there are ways to do that as a retail trader too. Um there are ways to
do joint accounts if you really want to do it but you know the strength of just
having a pod is really powerful and these things come
up when you just have a pod too as we know.
Um where you're just communicating and you're just taking your own trades
because let let me just I'll I'll be him. I'll
be your partner in the story and like if I if I'm getting excited about all my
trades and I'm communicating that to you and
you're not telling me which ones are trash and why
I might as well be trading by myself. Yeah. Why am I why am I
trading with you? Like the whole point is to get your like
if your strength is patience and waiting for your fat pitch
and my strength is like being active in scalping
like there's a way to take that and actually create something that's more
powerful because I would love to know
which trades were fat pitches and which trades were maybe
typical trades. It doesn't mean that I need to necessarily pass on all those,
but now what you're doing is you're starting to give me some insight. And I
don't always have to agree with you, but you're you're giving you're using your
strength to give me some insight into the grading of these trades, right? Like
so now when when you're aligned maybe I or maybe I'm a lot bigger or especially
if I like see that and maybe I start to pick up on what you're seeing cuz you're
not only going to say I like this and I don't like this. And this comes down to
the communication, but you're also going to say
I like this because of X, Y, and Z and it reminds me of A, B, and C. Or like I
don't like this because it's mid-range and no volumes come in
and I just think it's like a hopeful trade. I I just think we're kind of
hoping something happens. I I it's not ready
like you know, I would wait for these things to happen before I would get
involved. Awesome information. Like that's the
best kind of stuff. So, we want to be able to disagree. And one of the things
I talked about at the summit was Rick Rubin
the legendary um music producer.
Because there's an interview there with Anderson Cooper. I don't remember when
he did this, but it's up on the internet and you can look it up.
And Anderson Cooper says like do you play
any instruments? And Ruben's like no.
He's like I have no musical ability whatsoever.
Um He's like I have no technical ability.
He's like well you must like know something. And he's
like well I I know what I like and I know what I
don't like. And I have a
strong ability to communicate what I like
and what I look what I don't like and I and I I said he said something about
conviction, too. And I have conviction in what I like and what I don't like and
I and an ability to communicate that. And they're like, "So, what do you what
are people paying you for?" And he's like, "Well, they're paying me for my
ability to communicate my taste and my conviction
and artists find that helpful."
And I thought about that and like I've, you know, I'm I have a music background,
so I understand somewhat what he's talking about here because
you know, I've worked with producers and of course unfortunately not Rick Rubin,
but um you know, and and for those of you who don't know Rick Rubin, like if
you know um I mean, if you know Jay-Z or or Metallica or Tom Petty or the Red Hot
Chili Peppers or LL Cool J or the Beastie Boys or you you could go on.
He's one of the the biggest legends ever. And
he like I'm thinking about this and I'm
like, "Okay, this is kind of like a trading team."
Because here's a guy who can't play an instrument, but like he understands like
which trades to take and which trades not to take.
Right? So, like if he's working with the Red Hot Chili Peppers, you've got
John Frusciante on guitar who has tremendous skill,
but John might not have a have as good of a
feel for which tracks they should be working on
in the recording session, right? Like they're they're recording Blood Sugar
Sex Magik in the '90s. There's a whole documentary of them with
Rick and I've watched it and it's awesome.
And the the Red Hot Chili like the the members of the band are they're just off
the rails. They probably they've written like 50 songs and they they're they
would do anything. Like they're they're beaming with energy and they're feeling
every single song. So, it's almost like they needed
somebody to come in like just like you and say like look
um we need to wait for the fat pitch here.
Like there's going to be like 10 15 songs on this album. Like I'm here to
tell you which are the fat pitches and like John like
play the guitar solo on this one. Yeah. But could could Rick have done it
without the without John Frusciante without the
Chili Peppers? Absolutely not. Like he needs the he needs the musicians, but
the musicians need him. So, I thought it was like an awesome
analogy for sometimes what happens on these teams where you've got someone who
understands a playbook, can really execute. But then you might have someone
else who's saying hey, I understand the market environment
and the narrative and I kind of understand what playbooks we should be
trading right now and when to step on the gas, when to not step on the gas,
and what is a fat pitch, and what is worth paying attention to, and what is
actually a waste of time to pay attention to.
>> And just as a disclaimer, this joint account that failed was early in the
career cuz I would say now this is one of my strengths and literally the
meeting we had today with our team, you know?
Which is great. And I like getting into the communication because when you're
starting a pod it it isn't the most important thing. I
would say like you won't know right off the bat do you guys communicate well,
but this will be the biggest factor in the long-term success of a pod or a
joint account. Like 100% and it's what we've noticed
where you spend the most time. So
honestly if let's trade stories cuz I was listening
yet or actually it was today um
about communication and I just found this TED Talk, Why Do Teams Fail?
Um which was super interesting to like things that we've been thinking about um
in terms of improving as a team and just like
really it's crazy the parallels. So, I got some
notes, but basically the TED Talk was this um woman, Tessa West.
And she was talking about in 1999, there was a Mars Climate Orbiter. So,
something going to Mars to like track weather that ended up going into the
atmosphere and just exploding. So, mission failed, like terribly failed.
And she said the whole failure comes down to one thing, which was just failed
communication between the team. And more specifically,
the people working on this project were not talking to each other about the
right stuff at the right time. Like and I'm like, that's pretty
interesting. And then she gets more into detail
about one of the mishaps with communication
was that during this mission, two teams that were communicating together failed
to communicate about basic information that seemed obvious to each team.
And I think it's just the most interesting. We've been talking about
it. We as traders, like we could have the
same playbook, very similar playbooks. We could be watching the same ticker for
this breakout trend trade. And we have these inner monologues going in on our
head, like consistently. And we're going through all the information, you're
processing all the information, the checks in favor, the risk to reward,
expected value. But at the same time on a call, you
might not be saying all that out loud. And there is this vibe of like, well,
everyone has to be thinking like I'm thinking.
And it just leaves so much room for misinterpretation.
And it literally it was like I was listening to this podcast or this TED
Talk and I was like that's that's literally trading and it
was NASA, a NASA blown orbiter. >> I I'm so guilty of this and I'm trying
to get better at it. Like cuz we talk about this. Um you and I talk about this
one-on-one a lot to to try to get better together as individuals within the team.
So like we'll have our sub-team meetings about like hey uh
be better, right? Or like hey, here's an idea on like how we can be better. And
this it's funny that that that was the TED Talk because um that's so wild. Like
I find so often when I am
trying to express an idea to our team
that my
what I think is a an appropriate brevity and conciseness
and clarity is often just taken for granted
what what is being unsaid.
So >> Yeah.
>> like I like you said, I'll have a narrative in my head and I might just
say hey, like I'm looking at this trade
um the relative strength is like out of
control. Like I might want to buy or
you know, like I'm I'm kind of giving enough
so so be like and they'll fill in the blanks.
But that stuff could gets lost in the cracks and like you really have to be
so specific with what you're thinking to actually
get that conversation to the level where it's productive.
Right? Because it's so easy for that for that comment to kind of get lost in the
shuffle. Right? But if I said
"Hey, I think that this stock should be
the number one stock in everybody's watch list
right now because I think that
what I'm seeing with the relative strength here
is kind of telling me that like there's a potential and I'm not sure yet, but I
think my spider sense is that there's a potential
that this breakout could turn into the biggest trade of the month."
Now that gets your attention. Now you want to talk about that.
>> Exactly. It's actionable. It's like, all right, now this is go time. We need to
discuss this. We got to grade it. >> and it's like I'm if I just throw out
kind of a thing I'm I like expect everyone to look at it
and then and then make that connection like, oh, this could be the biggest
trade of the month. But like you might not look at it that way right
away. Right? Like you're you're worried about
all kinds of other stuff. >> It's like, oh, Garrett's mentioning
relative strength, you know, nice. >> Yeah, okay, cool. I'll glance at it,
right? So, you know, I think I think that's that's huge. Like that kind of
communication like not only communicating the facts, but also
communicating the the level of urgency and the level of conviction that you
have in something and even like why you're mentioning it.
Right? Because like I might say such and such is strong and in my head I'm
thinking the reason I think this is so
interesting is because it's in a particular sector
that is important to the market right now, which tells me a lot about the
market environment or is a change that I'm seeing in the market environment.
So, I'm tracking this shift that we're seeing, right? Like, okay, like they're
they're killing software and now maybe software's bouncing, right? I'm like
thinking about these things that are relevant. And I might just say
oh, like Oracle's relative relatively strong.
And then like you're like, oh, like cool. Like are we are we trading it or
like what do you you know >> Yeah, I'm trading, you know, S and D K.
Like, you know. >> Yeah, and so like I've learned that I
need to actually explain why like that is relevant to me.
Instead of just kind of like saying what I'm seeing.
>> And I mean, I'm working on it as well. Like we're just trying to improve
and it's so interesting cuz now it almost frames how I'm looking at
team dynamics where it really dives into the communication. So I have a question
for you. Like
one right off the bat, the myth you stated in the beginning, the lone wolf
Jesse Livermore. Would you say that you're firmly against
that working first off? >> No.
>> Yeah. >> No, I'm not firmly against it. I think
that some people are are more um
genetically designed for that lone wolf
existence. So I'm I'm not here to tell anybody
what's best for them because I I'm I I do think that there are probably people
out there that operate really well alone. And and they are the kinds of
people who probably no matter what field they get into have to find a job where
that's the case, right? Like you're you you're not going to be able to be on
that NASA team. You're probably not going to optimally
work in a hospital. But you're going to find something that
works where you can operate autonomously and alone. And
there are plenty of of things where where that can be
true and and trading is one of them. So, I don't think it's impossible and I
think that if that's your um demeanor and and kind of like where
you get your energy from, I think that's totally fine. But what I'm saying is
that I think that there are tons of traders, including me in the beginning,
that thought that that was the way. They thought that like that was the only way
to do trading. And so, for somebody who is inherently social like I am and I
feed off of other people and collaboration and and relationships,
I've found a lot of value in branching out and collaborating with other traders
because it's truly turned into a situation where like I've done things
that in this business that I don't think I
possibly could have ever done as a isolated lone wolf trader. And I
know that there are tons of other people out there and I would guess that the
majority of people are like that and I think the majority of traders are
actually trading alone. So, what I'm I'm just calling for like a
shift of mindset um because
this stuff can be powerful. Like we see it on the desk and and what I see the
biggest thing that I see is that we're surrounded by a lot of talent and that's
obvious to us like every day, right? There are there are a lot of
extremely talented traders here trading and and doing great. When I think of like almost everybody I
know, usually they're like really, really good
at like one thing or two things. So, when you get these teams together,
you get all of the sudden like a combination of like all of these
types of strengths and it and it makes sense. It's natural. It's not just
because we're on a trading desk. It's because it's really hard to be
the fastest thinker and the most deep analytical thinker at the same time.
Like >> Yeah.
>> Usually people are like one or the other.
So >> I just wanted to clear that up.
Honestly, it was cool. Like we just were doing the mentorship program and like
during the mentorship, I would think to myself like oh, like he would work great
with him. Like and they would team up really well. And at the end of the
mentorship like I'm not sure if they did form a
pod, but they were talking about forming a pod. And very much I was like that
strength definitely goes with that strength. Or that weakness would be
really coupled with this other person's strength.
>> Yeah. >> And it was cool to see. So with that now
clear like we are I'm very pro team trading. Like
it's 100% helped my career. And I think it would be very beneficial for
everyone. And I wanted to ask not only trading related on this. So like it
could be the personality skills and communication skills.
>> Yeah. >> Um rather than just like a setup. But if
you were building your dream team like pod from scratch today, what are some of
the first roles like quote unquote that you would try to fill?
>> Have you heard this study of tens of millions of traders which shows that
only 1% of retail traders actually make it?
Don't be a statistic. Visit smbtradingfloor.com
to greatly increase your odds. >> Realistically, there's usually overlap
in these roles. Cuz like if you're specializing in if you're like really
good at at technology and and quant work like that doesn't mean that I don't know
a bunch about that stuff too and I can't join you in that, but it becomes like
your sort of special like you're kind of leading that
um that wing, right? Um so one of them would definitely be
technology. Like you have to have you got I I would I would have to have
someone on the team who understands how to back test and test strategies and
code and use AI and all of that stuff.
Like we need we need we need that person.
Um I would want somebody who
has a a really great feel
for the market. What does that mean? What do I mean? Well, it's kind of like
the Rick Rubin thing, right? Like I know people who
um scalp really well
and can like kind of like pull money out of like, you
know, like most things, but it's like if they're if they're if
they're trading like the best thing of the day,
like they're just going to like destroy it because it's like a it's like the
it's the stock that's trending or it's the the the best trading instrument of
that day. It's the most in play thing, like whatever it is, it's the cleanest
thing, it's the thing with the best catalyst.
Somebody is usually really good at understanding like what to be watching
and what to be trading. So that's what I mean about the Rick Rubin thing. It's
like you might not be like scalping all these things, but you've got a really
good feel for the market to understand like, okay, like breakouts are going to
start to work. These are the leading names. This one
has a really good catalyst. This one's doing a lot of volume today. I think
this is where this is where I want to be focusing
right now in the market. I think that's a really
valuable for a team. Um what do we have? Four people you
said? >> I said uh just if you were just starting
off. So, how many roles you want? >> I'll I'll do I'll do another one. And
then and then I want I want somebody who who understands
the the execution
of the playbook that that that represents the team. So, and this should
be everyone should understand the execution, but there should be somebody
who really understands timing and patterns
and and understands like when time, price, and volume come together where
all of a sudden like the EV of that trade, right? It's
it might be an A+ um
an A+ situation like we talked about on the on the episode where we were grading
setups, right? Where we know that we're we're trading within we're living within
an A+ scenario.
But maybe that moment hasn't happened yet where we can like put on tons of
risk. But that moment will come with either
price action confirming, getting really tight, you see something on the tape,
you know, it breaks a level, you know, you get your you get your trade. You get
that moment where you can get the most size in this really great opportunity.
Um I want a person who who knows those
moments really well. And and he and and and can either help
pound the table at those moments or be actually, if it's a joint account,
hitting it. If you're trading together, like without you know, just individually
but together, you want someone being like, "Guys, like it's now or never.
Like it it just broke the opening range. >> Pound the table, guys. This is the
moment." >> Like that's this this is the moment.
Like this is where I'm getting all my size.
That's a great call out. So, I want I want that person on my team.
So, those are the three. The the the three biggest ones for me, I
think. I could go on, but I think those are my my three.
>> I like those roles. And honestly, what I like about it, too,
when you're trying to form a pod, like that's how you're trying to really vet
other strengths and see if they would complement yours, rather than oh, he
trades breakouts, she trades breakouts. All right, we got a pod. But it really
is the nuances and strength. And the other area I would say when
forming any pod or team where people get led astray a little bit is you don't
really want one idea generator. You don't want one executor.
You don't want like cuz those will overlap where any good
pod, like you should be having ideas from everyone else.
>> Yeah. >> But it could be someone has a strength
in a certain type of idea. Or like a special situation or a
catalyst play. But when it comes to roles, it's less of
like, all right, like this person is hitting the buttons. This person reviews
for us. This person gives us our ideas. >> We talk about I like the roles you said.
>> Well, thank you. We we talk about we we talk about specialization a lot, right?
And that's that's what this is. And to your point,
you know, the roles thing I think is something that just naturally happen you
let it happen. So if you're like if you're going out and, you know, say
you're you're joining chat rooms, you're on Twitter, you're
going to summits, you're trying to meet traders, and you're slowly developing
these relationships to kind of vet out, okay, like, you know, who who might I
see if we can maybe get a Discord channel together and start, you know,
trading and communicating and maybe we then build a playbook and maybe we um
create some sort of common infrastructure for the team that allows
us to track things and keep track of our playbook and and all these all of these
things that I that I talked about in my speech that I think are best practices
for starting a team, as you're doing this, like it you don't
have to define those roles right away. Because they're like you said, they
overlap, they're not so clean-cut. It's not like a you know, we're not in a um
dentist office where everyone just has their like, you know, you have the
receptionist and then you have the the um
the orthodontist or whatever.
>> Should have used a better analogy. I don't know much.
>> Yeah, I don't know, man. Um and and so
you know, I think it's good to let that kind of naturally happen, but just with
that in mind that you know, you you're you're you're trying to accentuate
different strengths and bring the strengths of everybody out. And so
like as a as a team leader like on on one of the one of our teams,
um like my role is not to be a mentor, it's not to be
like some higher-up figure as a team leader. Like
I'm not like a better trader than you guys are. Like we're all equals on this
team. The the leadership role that I have and
that I've kind of I um defined for myself
is like my job is to bring the strengths
out of everybody else. So I'm more of like an organizer and a facilitator to
just keep tabs on like not only just like what we're doing each day. Like
everyone's involved in the marketing and communicating, but kind of over the top
of that, I'm thinking about okay, what's Tim really good at and like
how can we leverage that? Like what's Cam really good at and how can we
leverage that? And like if we're are we not getting enough of
you know, Cam's strengths and like how can we bring that out? And all like
that's that's what's on my mind a lot with of team. And so I think that
as you're getting a a team together, you probably do want to think about those
complimentary strengths. Right? Like if you're if you're really
into quant stuff, um and you're just you're you're a data
scientist, right? You might not want to go find You might
not want to go to MIT to find your teammates, right? Like you might
You might not >> to find someone with a discretionary
strategies that you can code up. >> Exactly, right? So like you don't want
to find a bunch of other quants. And I mean, Jim Simons will probably argue
against this and and sure, I mean, you can get a whole firm of quants and that
would be that would be awesome if it turns into Renaissance Capital, but my
point being that like you don't necessarily want to clone
yourself, you know? So like it it would like it's
it's one of the biggest advantages that I can think of. And I
thought a lot about this when we were doing our mentorship program, um a month
ago, right? So for 4 weeks, we had
five traders that we you know, we get pretty intimate during
those 4 weeks with these traders because we're having meetings with them all day.
We're talking to them about the market. We're reviewing our playbooks.
We're helping them review their playbooks. So we're talking about all of
these strategies, and you really get to know
each trader really well because you have to cuz you're helping them. And
everybody is so different. Everyone has a completely different strength.
>> different strengths. >> And
it's all it always strikes me that you always get somebody who's super
super technologically inclined. Where they're like they know how to do
everything and they're really interested in back testing and they want to create
like systematic models and they're they're looking at data in different
ways and using math. And then you always get someone who's
just like I wrote some playbooks. I've got a feel
for the market. I know what's in play. I just I don't really like I use
technology, but I'm not like overly quant, but I'm just really
I'm just really good at like knowing like what to trade.
>> I know my plays, yeah. >> these playbooks, right?
I'm always thinking like man, you guys you guys need to like join up, right?
Like and you know the two people I'm talking about.
>> in the top of my head, yeah. >> And I'm just like you guys would be an
awesome team. Just just just join together and like keep doing your
things, but just combine them. Um so that's that's really what I if I were
starting a team, that's what I'd be thinking about. Right? Like who am I?
And then like who's who's the opposite? Who could really help that?
>> Who would complement yourself? >> Yeah, yeah, exactly. And then you just
want to find someone who's not an That's like >> Yes, which that will derail a team, too.
Let's yeah. >> I mean you want
>> Or a guy that goes too rogue without talking to the team. I've I've done
that, too. >> Yeah, yeah, yeah. You you want you don't
want someone to be um anti-communicative. You don't want
someone to be um you just you just want people to be
good listeners and and positive attitudes and
you know, all the stuff that I'm sure which I'm so excited to read is in is
talked about in Dr. S's new book, by the way.
>> it here. I haven't I haven't started. It's literally on my desk. I think this
weekend I'm going to get into it. >> showed up at my doorstep um a few days
ago. So I can't wait to crack crack that thing open.
>> Also, talking about like-minded traders, I mean, people watching this pod, you
know, you can even comment in our YouTube comment section.
Looking for a pod. >> Like hey, looking for a pod. Exactly.
Like this is who I am. This is what I do.
Hit me. Yeah, that's a great idea. >> Yeah.
>> Do that. Do it. >> Um
>> And Dr. S during his speech talked a lot about this.
And it was funny cuz he he was before me.
I didn't know what he was going to talk about and he started out with like the
same thing I was going to end with which is like
>> like, "Oh shit." >> Which is like look around. No, but he
was he was so good. Like it's so hard to follow him when you're talking to people
cuz he's just a master at at making people laugh
and learn at the same time. >> 100%.
>> you know, like you're just you're keeling over
and it's like a profound point, right? And like there was one moment and I
don't want to ruin it because like I think the stuff this content will
probably come out. But like there was one moment where he he was talking about
and for those of you who don't know Dr. S, like he's the probably the the best
trading coach in in all of our business, like period and and he's a um
wonderful guy. Uh he's written a number of of books on
psychology and and he's a trader himself.
And um he was talking about tilt. And he was talking about and I'm not
going to do it justice, but it was like he was comparing
um he was talking about how other
industries have teams that review and deal with
high-pressure situations. And so he was talking about a surgeon.
And he was like, "I would argue that the risk-reward of
of being a surgeon is a lot higher than being a trader." Or in other words, the
risk period is a lot higher than when you're a surgeon, of course, than than
when you're a trader. And and they and he was talking about,
you know, some some example where it's they're comparing surgeons to traders
and he was saying like what like what if your surgeon went on tilt?
You You it's like so many like so many traders think like going on
chill is like chill is like, you know, it's fine. It's something I'm struggling
with and I'm kind of dealing with it and it's just like
just get over it. Like just don't do it because like what if
>> example. Imagine a NASA guy going on chill. It's like boom.
>> Yeah, exactly. It's like, you know, it's so it was it was a really really funny
moment. Um, he's making like this this great analogy, but he talked about team
trading as well.
And and shared the same view. And which I thought it was interesting because
he's seen SMB grow up. Right? But like before I got
here, before you got here, he was here, you know, helping out,
partnering with the firm and stuff like that.
And it was interesting because he talked
about how this was one of the like original missions of the firm was
to leverage collaboration and and teamwork and like an open communication
kind of framework within trading and that he's seen that
come from a goal to fruition and he's seen it really work
with our firm. And now we see it all the time where it's like, you know, barely
anyone kind of does it alone here, right? It's like very very encouraged to
to be on a team and to be communicating with at least like one pod. And, you
know, it's it totally works, which is why, you
know, Dr. S and I are at this point like kind of pounding the table on this just,
you know, publicly because you know, I think that so many people
are still you know, in
alone in their in their house trying to figure it out.
>> And I think there is a myth where it's like, I don't want anyone to steal my
edge. And when you start working with teams, it's crazy how much the edge can
compound. And if you're worried about losing the
edge just by sharing with someone, you have no idea of the edge you're going to
gain. >> 100% and there's there is no This makes
me think of two things. Dave Mab, first of all, we had him on the podcast um
talking about quant stuff. And he's like, "Yeah, I don't I don't I'm not
really worried about like sharing my strategies or my thoughts because I just
know that like people are going to do it differently. And if you
if you, for example, take something really simple like an opening range
break strategy and give it to like 20 traders and have them study the data and
create an automated model, maybe one or two are going to come up
with a profitable model because they're going to be filtering different trades
using different nuances and criteria. And so,
we've seen this, too. It's like you can you can share all kinds of things and
it's like it's going to click for some people and isn't for others, you know,
and and there are there are a lot of other things that go into like making
these like strategies successful than just kind of like knowing it. Um
so, >> 100%.
>> And then, you know, the other thing is is K Fits, right? Like one of our
mentors from day one. Unbelievable trader. One of the best
traders I know. Um just
hi, you know, higher time frame narrative-driven swing trader, momentum
swing trader. Big picture idea guy.
And he
he barely knows how to set a price alert.
Like, he doesn't know how to like he barely and he'll admit it. Like, "I
don't know how to code. I don't really create a lot of technology. I just sit
here and make money cuz I know like what's buy and sell, right?" So, he's
teaches us stuff. He he has from the beginning, right? Like, we've been we've
been part of his team ever since we were developing traders. And
we should we develop technology for him. >> Oh, yeah. A bunch.
>> Right? And and we're not worried about sharing our work because what happens is
like he ends up giving us call outs that he's seeing
based on the tech that we created, right? So, we'll create a filter for
him. And then like the next day, you just
start noticing that he's like calling out trades based on the stuff that we
gave him and like I I'm not even seeing the stuff that he's seeing even though
we created this this piece of technology.
>> I made a low float scanner for him, I remember, cuz you just wanted to see the
stocks doing a ton of volume, the low float stocks doing a ton of volume,
lower price. Um and now he calls them out every day. Every pre-market Yeah.
>> Yeah. On our uh team morning meeting he'll call out the runners of the day
from that. >> Yeah. He's You know, he's
>> Which is like >> He's great at using the
technology in the flow. >> He only asks when he really wants
something specific, too, and he's specific with what he wants.
>> Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Totally. So, I mean, I hope that, you know, from
this um people get a little bit of a feel for
not only like why one might consider
starting a pod or making some effort to do it if you if if you haven't already,
but also also how to do it.
Right? Because the thing What are the things that
matter? Um
and and and I I think that like if you already
have a pod I think that maybe
if you think that the pod can improve as a team
there are probably going to be some nuances within
a few different categories that you can focus on as a team that are
going to create dramatic improvements. Like I would say the communication we've
talked about is super important. Just ironing out like how clear that can
really be. What are a a few others? Well,
how about a team infrastructure? Meaning like a common workspace that you
can share. Like we use Notion. Um you can use other things, but this is
a place where we can all log in and share our playbooks. So when I want to
do a write-up on a gold trade or an oil trade or not that I'm just a futures
trader these days, but >> It seems like it.
>> I can I can do that write-up and log it in our playbook and it's just going to
go in there and everyone can see it. And so now we're building this book of
charts where for me instead of having like 40 examples of this particular IPO
trade like now we have 160 examples because
everyone's putting their stuff in there. And we can also track catalyst and do So
all the all the little work that we would be doing individually now like
goes into this common workspace and we can now leverage this workspace as a
team. And so that's one thing that I would
that I would highly recommend uh if you already have a team like finding
a way to do that. Is there anything else Tim that would be like a
best practice for you that that really helps?
>> I would just say on the communication like we got into some of the
nitty-gritty in how to communicate in real time.
But in any pod it helps just talking every day even if it's just texting in a
discord every morning, but all good teams have a pretty high level
of constant communication. >> Yeah.
>> Um but no, I would say the infrastructure, the communication
like-minded playbooks and complementing strengths
>> Yeah. >> the biggest thing and then just it's
sometimes takes work and it's like if you are interested in starting a pod and
like finding a team like just go for it, you know?
>> Yeah, and part of that part of that work is going to be a like a group review
work, right? Like a common review. And I find that extremely helpful because
rather than being in my own ISO chamber where I'm just like
repeating the same mistakes in my head. If I'm reviewing a trade with you guys,
all of a sudden like other possibilities start to open up. It's not like don't do
that again. Don't do that again. It's like, oh wait, Tim Tim does it this way.
>> We can do it this way. Yeah. >> Yeah, like maybe I should think of it
that way. Maybe that's my problem. So, I find the the group review to be
at least for me like that's my favorite way to do it because I just get all
kinds of other ideas. So, if you if you want to if you want to start building a
team, you know, put put something in the chat.
Like reach out. Like this this particular um
you know, if you're on YouTube, if you're on Spotify at this point there
probably be less people there, but if you're on YouTube,
um put in the chat. Like tell us about
yourself. Um maybe maybe uh maybe you can meet some people that way.
Do it on Twitter. You know, go to summits. You know, join join inside
>> with us maybe. >> Exactly. And then of course like our
our mentorship program, which we don't run very often, but we just finished
one. Um
that's a great that's a great way to do it too because this is an opportunity
where it's a very intimate group where you know, we're actually encouraging the
whole time that people kind of stay in touch and
and try to get a pod out of out of the whole experience. So,
um any last words, Tim? >> No. Uh
I'll catch you tomorrow morning about our team call.
>> Yeah, exactly. That's a great. All right, cool. Well, where we are on
Spotify now and of course YouTube and we will catch you next week.