How many apartment complexes do you own?
>> Over 25,000.
>> And you've amassed an incredible
portfolio. I think $2.5 billion worth of
real estate at one point in time.
>> Yeah, higher. But yeah, I mean, you
know, those real estate values keep
going up, so it's always hard to tell. I
don't even want any more money. I mean,
I do, cuz I'm giving it away. This year,
I'm on track to probably give $30
million away.
>> When did you first learn and realize
that you could get rich off real estate?
>> I love the idea of getting these monthly
checks.
>> You fell in love with the cash flow.
>> I mean, yeah, that's just the most
beautiful thing.
>> You built your wealth through section 8
housing. Why did you decide to go all in
on section 8?
>> If you read the book on section 8, it's
close to 500 pages of rules and
regulations. It was a program that most
people couldn't understand. But then I
kind of discovered that one of the best
parts of section 8 is that and so I
focused a lot on there's a lot of
entrepreneurs and business professionals
that watch this podcast that probably
run themselves into the ground trying to
build a great company. What's your
perspective on that?
>> I could count the amount of times in two
hands I was in the office past 6:00. It
wasn't to me the most important thing.
Greg, if me and you died tomorrow and
you had one more guiding principle to
lead with the younger generation, what
would that be?
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we have an incredible
guest for you all out here in Los
Angeles, California. We are joined with
one of the most successful and prominent
real estate investors in the entire
country, Greg Pearlman. Greg has amassed
a portfolio of how many apartment
complexes do you own?
>> Well, at one point over 250
>> 250 complexes.
>> Complexes.
>> How many units?
>> Over 25,000.
>> Over 25,000 units. And you've amassed an
incredible portfolio. I think $2.5
billion worth of real estate at at one
point in time.
>> Yeah. Higher. But yeah, I mean, you
know, those real estate values keep
going up, so it's always hard to tell.
You never know. It's like the stock
market.
>> And And you recently had an exit as
well.
>> Yeah, I did.
>> For for how much did you exit for? uh
sold about half the portfolio at the
time. So it was about uh a little over
1.2 billion. That
>> that is absolutely incredible. Well,
we're going to be diving into real
estate today, but you also have one of
the most, you know, incredible
philosophies on money that I've ever
heard. I think you and your wife have
something where you're going to be
giving away 75% of the wealth that
you've amassed when it's all said and
done. Is that true?
>> Yeah. And it's probably going to be more
um because as the wealth continues to
grow, but uh our kids are set. So yeah,
our goal is to give it away and to do it
in our lifetime so we can enjoy it
because it's so fun for us. But uh we're
absolutely uh on that path right now.
>> Well, we're going to be diving into that
today, but I first want to get start off
by asking you when did you first learn
and realize that you could get rich off
real estate?
>> There was a little bit of blood in the
family. Uh my grandfather had owned some
properties and my grandmother had uh
given me and my two sisters a piece of a
property that brought a check in and
that was what we got to live on in
college.
>> What type of property was it?
>> It was a retail property here in LA.
Still own it actually. Uh and so I think
at the time it was like call it $400 a
month. So that was my living plus
whatever I made during at work. And so
um I love the idea of getting these
monthly checks. So that was
>> you fell in love with the cash flow. I
mean, yeah, that's just the most
beautiful thing. I mean, to get a check
like that every single month. I mean,
you know, it's like other business, you
know, in the world, you got to work for
your money, you know, and here you own a
building and the money comes in. Now,
it's not always perfect. The tenants
don't pay and things happen. But, yeah,
when that check comes in, it's kind of a
great way to live. So, I determined
right after college that I want to get
into real estate.
>> But you went to law school.
>> No, I did not. No. No. I went to uh
Boston University uh graduated
undergraduate business school.
>> That's amazing.
>> Yeah.
>> And go ahead.
>> I was going to say, so what do those
next steps look like? You decided, okay,
I want to go all in on this real estate
venture, but what did those first steps
look like after college? Did you get a
job to fund it? Did you go right into
wholesaling of some sort? How did you
kind of get that capital to dive right
in?
>> I um I was fortunate enough I met a I
met a guy who was a real estate guy. as
a broker in LA and he wanted to start
developing real estate and he just kind
of felt I went in there and kind of sold
myself because I just had studied real
estate a little bit and also but studied
it from a hard knock talking you know
it's a family members how does it work
so I went in and said look I think I can
develop some real estate if you'll back
me so we went in uh I went to work for
my draw salary uh actually found a piece
of land built a 26-unit building in
Hollywood that was my first uh venture
he bought the building from me. So, I
made money on that. Um, and along the
way just started meeting some other
people uh got uh had this one guy who
got behind me and said, "Hey, why don't
you come for me? I'll back you and I've
got way more money than the other broker
I was working for." So, I got involved
in just acquiring real estate. And at
that time when I was younger, I was
buying and selling, you know, because
that big chunk of money, I didn't have
any money. So, that was what I lived on.
So I think when I made my first $100,000
was about two years out out of college
in 1989 when I got bought out of that
building and that was just a giant
amount of money. So I was like okay this
is cool but um you know one of the
things I talk about in real estate it's
really hard to get here. It probably
pertains to a lot of businesses. What
happened is is that I started acquiring
some real estate and it was in the
affordable housing space and um I
started making good cash flow from it
and I was able to get cash flow and
build that up enough to what I call the
crossover point. This is a big time.
This is a big point. The crossover point
is when you have enough cash flow coming
in every month that it covers your
monthly nut. Now at that time I had a
little bigger nut. I had two kids. I got
married young. Um so I had a wife and
two kids. But whatever that number was,
let's say back then, I think it was
about 6,000 a month, 7,000 a month just
to pay my mortgage, house, cars, this,
that. Now, you kind of can really go all
in, right? Because it's covered. I don't
have to sell real estate. I don't have
to buy and sell real estate. I can
actually own it. I can hold it for the
long term. And if you see any of the
people in the world in real estate, you
guys interview a lot of them. The way to
build wealth is to own real estate and
hold it, not to buy and sell.
>> So you have a a multibillion dollar
portfolio of real estate today. What
does the breakdown of that portfolio
look like? How much of is it? Because
you mentioned affordable housing was
like mainly what you're going after.
What is kind of like the breakdown of
the portfolio today?
>> Um so after, you know, now I'm now I'm
at 8,000. I call it 8,000 units because
I sold off a significant amount of units
over the uh all the way up until March
2022. Um you know, and there was and so
it's probably about 50/50 with regular
market rate apartments and uh and
affordable housing units. So, and along
the way though, I would say up until
2019, it was probably 90% affordable
housing and 10% market rate units. So, I
liked the affordable housing. Um, it was
a very e es esoteric area. You know,
when you're dealing with a government,
there's so many rules and regulations
and it scared off a lot of people. And,
um, it allowed me to use my brain to
kind of figure out the nooks and
crannies of how to operate within their
guidelines. And as long as you operate
very tightly in their guidelines, they
can be a good partner. The minute you
get outside the guidelines, they can
come down on you like with the wrath of
God. So, a lot of people don't like
that. And I liked it. There weren't a
lot of people playing in that space in
the in the late 90s at all. And the
space got discovered, I call it about
mid 2010, 2012, everybody started
jumping into affordable housing. And by
the time I sold my, you know, I sold two
chunks of portfolio, but the big
transaction 22, you had Blackstone in
it, Starwood, all the biggest REITs.
Everybody wanted to be an affordable.
And I figured this is a time maybe to
hit an exit button. When did you
graduate college?
>> 87.
>> 87. We were having this conversation
before we started the podcast that the
80s was like the era. It was like the
flashiest era where everybody was set on
they wanted to make a bunch of money to
go buy cars to go buy what we call like
liabilities in today's world. What kept
you so focused on wanting to kind of
accumulate this wealth for years and
years to come as opposed to falling into
those temptations, falling into that
distraction? Could you kind of talk
about your mindset? You're coming out of
school. You have, I'm sure, a lot of
people around you that are wanting the
flashy things. They're wanting that that
instant gratification. How did you avoid
that?
>> What makes you think I didn't? I mean,
this is Come on. This was the this was
the motivating factor in the 80s. I
mean, it was it was a it was kind of a a
straight path, right? First, you make
you you know, you make money, you get a
nice car, especially in LA, right? And I
was in Boston when I went to school, but
you know, I was from LA. I came back to
LA. You know, you're driving a Porsche
around. automatic entrance into getting
girls. I mean, that's kind of what it's
all about, right? Then you get a nice
apartment, then you get nice clothes,
then you get fancy watches, you get all
these different things and all the
trappings of a good life. This is what
what we wanted. So, I was wanting to
build wealth originally as a young
person because I wanted those trappings.
Now, so happened that I met a girl in
college, my senior year, who's still
currently my wife. So the big pot of
gold at the end of having all those
trapping was the girls, but that was
kind of eliminated. But I still wanted
the trappings. I still wanted to kind of
be the man and have look good and feel
good and, you know, and and have all
those material things. Um, so that's
that was that was kind of still the main
driver of wanting to be wealthy
alongside of now I got two kids, I have
a wife, and you know, and I wanted to
kind of like, you know, provide for them
at the same time. Um, you know what
happened for me
what I will say is that real estate is
slowm moving. You know, you don't I mean
there's times that you can buy and sell
real estate, but most of wealth in real
estate is created over decades. And if
you can hold on to that real estate for
decades, you can see some real
appreciation and real building of your
wealth. The slowness of it is also a
good thing for you. you know, people who
like start a tech company and sell it,
you know, a year later and they're young
and they're 25 for a billion dollars.
I'm like, whoa, how do you ever grasp
that, right? But for me, it's like every
day was a was a scratch and a claw and
my wealth was was building the way grass
grows. You know what I'm saying? And all
of a sudden, I've got weeds going, you
know, up the side of the house. But
every single day, you don't see it. And
so that is a really good way to kind of
keep yourself grounded. And then as I
started getting more trappings in life,
um, I started realizing that, well, wait
a second, now I have everything. And so
what are the next steps? And so it took
a while for me to get over that, you
know, not a crazy amount of time, but it
takes you a period of time. And when
you're buying things slowly and
accumulating, I accumulated a f, you
know, I have a much nicer house. I have
a second home on the beach. I have a
home in the mountains, you know, I I
started acquiring things like that and
then you kind of have everything. So now
it's question is now what?
>> Yeah. This year, um, the three of us, we
invested into our first real estate
deal. And, uh, if you were to be able to
go back and have a conversation with
your younger self when you were first
starting or even just today, looking at
today's market in the real estate
market, what would you say to that
person that's diving in trying to do
their first real estate deal? What would
be the advice that you would give to
them?
>> Patience. you know, it's going to be,
you know, unfortunately, guys. Um, and
it goes for all businesses. You know,
there's that there was that word that
they have in the stock market. It's
called it's perfect. And I learned that
in college, meaning if Jerome Powell
says something, by the time the word
comes out, the stock market has moved,
right? There's no hidden anything. Back
when the stock market started in the
1900s, literally it would take a horse
coming to California to tell people what
was going on, right? So, the same
thing's happening in real estate. It's
very very hard to find deals because
there's so much information. Every
broker knows every building. I get phone
calls on my cell phone like 25 times a
day. So, everybody has every piece of
information. When I started in real
estate, if I wanted to find out the
owner of a building, I'd have to go
downtown to the halls, which I did. I'd
have to find these microfich, look up
the address, and somehow get an owner.
And if I called an owner to try and buy
a building, I'd be like, "Yeah, come
over for coffee. How are you?" Like, you
never got a phone call before. So, it's
it's hard, but you gotta, you know, you
got to find a niche. You got to find an
area you believe in. And, you know, that
happened with me with Venice Beach, you
know, back in the late 90s. And I
believed in this area that this area had
to turn. And um, you know, I was able to
be patient because it doesn't happen
overnight. And you'll have investors
sometimes who aren't patient. You know,
a lot of these private equity guys, real
estate funds, they have five, sevenyear
life. These guys want to be in and out.
So, you got to perform. You know, my
wealth was created huge over 20, 25
years. I couldn't be beholdened to these
short-term things because things can
happen, too. Like right now, prices,
values are going down. Y'all are from
Austin. I mean, prices on real estate on
apartment buildings in Austin are down
30% from their highs.
>> What drives that for people that don't
understand? drives the Austin situation.
>> Like just the market's prices going down
in general.
>> I mean, you know, every market's unique,
but Texas loves construction because
Texas doesn't have any income taxes. All
their money is made on property taxes.
So, they love new buildings.
>> Can you explain that, though? So, when
there's vacancies, it causes the rents
to go down. And
>> yeah, the more Well, there's it's supply
and demand. So, the more units that come
online that then there are people to
occupy them. Owners have to start
reducing their rents to get them full.
owners in Austin and you guys are living
there will say you guys probably live I
don't know if you're renting or owning
but your neighboring buildings are two
months free rent three months free rent
four months free rent they're giving
away anything to get these things
occupied I mean free rent is just a
basically a rent reduction right if you
sign a one-year lease and you get two
months free rent that's a 16% reduction
of the rent whatever the face rent is so
if they're saying it's 200 it's really
down to about you know 1 1600
>> but isn't it crazy how that works though
because you look at just a couple years
ago everybody's saying go invest in
Austin and then now you know like you
said the the math isn't math in there in
terms of with the vacancies the rents
going down and it's not a place that you
would invest in. So you've seen that I'm
sure time and time again where these
markets it's just like they're hot one
year and the next they're just complete
opposite.
>> Well I always deal I always dealt in
markets uh and things that were finite.
Uh affordable housing is finite. When I
was dealing with projectbased section 8
housing, they created a certain amount
of units back in the 70s and 80s and
they haven't created new units in that
program for over 40 years now. So there
was a finite amount of product. So there
was no new product. Certain markets,
Manhattan, LA, San Francisco, certain
places, very hard to build. Very hard to
build in LA. And LA gets a bad rap. And
I get it. You know, sometimes there's
things like rent control and other
things that happen here in the politics,
but from a supply and demand standpoint,
it's very hard to build here. So,
there's not the supply. Straight out
supply and demand. Atlanta, Nashville,
Austin, all the coolest places in the
country that everyone talks about,
Florida, easy to build, easy to create
supply. All the developers come in. We
had free money for three years after
COVID. Literally, interest rates were 0%
the bank. Um, so it was cheap money and
easy to build and that just led to an
over supply. Now it'll come back. It'll
come back. You got to be patient. You
know, at the end of the day, if you look
now, there's no new stuff coming out of
the ground in Atlanta. There's very
little new stuff starting in Austin
because the deals don't pencil. The
banks don't want to lend because we're
seeing what's happening. And so
eventually there'll be a supply issue
and then rents will go up. And then when
rents go up, all of a sudden people
start building and then there'll be
like, you know, then there'll be an over
supply. So it's it es and flows. When
people talk about building wealth in
real estate, people talk about buying
single family homes, buying apartments,
buying retail centers, but you built
your wealth through section 8 housing.
Why did you decide to go all in on
section 8?
>> Um because again, it was a program that
most people couldn't understand. In the
late 90s, it was so highly regulated,
there weren't a lot of opportunities to
make money in it. It was like the if you
read the book on section 8, it's it's
close to 500 pages of rules and
regulations. Um, you know, and I'd been
around that space in some way, shape, or
form for quite some time. And so, you
know, I really decided that this was a
place to go all in on. I figured that
there was a place that you could make
money as long as you didn't mind dealing
with the rules and regulations. you had
people who were some tough tenant mixes,
but then I kind of discovered that one
of the best parts of section 8 uh is the
elderly population. And these are
generally older women uh because women
outlive men. Let's get ready for that,
too. Um and we uh you're basically
having women older women living on fixed
incomes where social security is their
only income. So, it's a very very
special class of people. The
government's never going to cut their
housing back. they have no other way of
living anywhere without this housing.
There's very little problems uh with
with the residents. And so I focused a
lot on senior housing. And then since I
had the money coming in, we did some
great properties. We started putting
movie theaters in our properties. We
started giving them social services. We
had food services. I mean, all sorts of
things because I wanted to kind of be a
good landlord. And I started becoming I'
I'd hang out with my tenants. I'd go
there and have I'd have when I was in
town, I'd have lunch with them. I'd have
breakfast with them and they were like
so happy that I'd come in. They were
just happy to have kind of anybody to
talk to. And so, you know, I I really
took it to heart and uh was very focused
on senior housing.
>> Something that you you mentioned is the
fact that you know your tenants. You'd
even have lunch and breakfast with them.
How important is it to know your
customer in order for you to actually
scale your business?
>> You know, it's a slippery slope because
sometimes when you get to know your
tenants, all they do is complain to you.
Ah, my toilet didn't work and my light
was broken, everything else. So, the
tenant landlord relationship is a unique
relationship. It's not your standard
customer relationship like in the other
businesses you might be thinking about.
Um, you know, I knew that I had the
ability to step up and make sure that my
buildings were going to be operated
great. So, I didn't have I wasn't scared
to be with my residents and I wasn't
scared to sit there and have breakfast
with them. I knew I was also providing
such a unique product when we were doing
it. government would come in and see our
buildings. Like, no one ever built a
movie theater for the residents because
they weren't paying me for that. They
were giving me whatever the rent was.
So, I was like, "No, we're going to do
these things." Amazing. I want these
things to look like hotels. The W brand
had just come out and a lot of my
buildings look like Wbrand hotels for my
residents. And I still own a bunch of
those buildings and I love it. And so,
um, because I knew I could step up.
There's a lot of landlords who don't
step up for their residents and those
are the ones that probably aren't going
to have breakfast with them.
>> Wow. Now, I'm going to have you mentor
the three of us for a second right here.
Okay.
>> Okay. So, Jack mentioned to you earlier
that, you know, we went in on a big
apartment complex in Texas this year. Uh
we've had a very profitable business the
last one or two years and we're looking
to, you know, we like that real estate
vehicle. We like what you can do with
from a tax standpoint. We like the long
game, right? Warren Buffett says get
rich slow. Um and real estate's
obviously one of those best assets for
that.
>> Very slow. Yeah. But I I want to ask, as
we are starting to do more deals with
people and we're trying to align
ourselves with the best of the best,
what are some of those red flags that
you would look for instantly and people
putting deals together that would tell
you to run the hell away from that
person? What What are those, you know,
you you've done deals with, I'm sure,
the best of the best, but you there's
also probably been some partnerships
that you maybe have regret doing. What
are those key red flags that tells us to
run away from those people? You know, I
did all my own deals without partners,
but I brought investors in at different
times. And I think it's really critical
that you have big boys. And by big boys
or girls, um, that means people who've
been through it, that they've seen
adversity. And I think that, you know,
there was from 200, so we had a hor, you
know, I don't know how guys familiar
guys are, but in 2008, we had almost a
great depression. Real estate values
plummeted around the country everywhere.
And how much real estate did you own at
this point?
>> Um, I had probably 12 13,000 units. I
was pretty insulated because I was in
the affordable housing business. So, my
section 8 rents were stable. There was
people always looking
>> because it's guaranteed checks, right?
It's guaranteed.
>> Yeah. The rent comes in, the government
pays uh a portion of the rent and then
the tenant pays uh a portion of their
income towards rent and the rents are
set. So, those buildings have waiting
list to get in. So, I was actually
pretty insulated. everywhere people were
going running for the hills starting in
2010. We were coming out of it from 2010
and interest rates were driven down by
the Federal Reserve starting in 2010 to
all the way about 2022 or three. I mean
I was kind of lucky that I chose 22 to
get out. Um was nothing but rent
increases and lower interest rates. When
COVID happened, interest rates went to
zero. So we were just dealing with
nothing but good news for owners, people
who had never faced adversity. You need
to find people whether you know and then
for me being a being the operator, I
needed investors that were big boys,
which I got. Um and I you need to find
people that you're going to invest with
that have seen tough markets because
anybody who's only seen things going up
and interest rates going down, those
people are up against it right now. And
here we are in a market where rents are
down in Austin. Some buildings are down
30%. Interest rates at one point were 3%
on an apartment building. Today you're
lucky to get anything under 5%. That's
just a huge huge change and a lot of
guys haven't dealt with it.
What was your relationship with risk?
Could be. I say that because you know
you think of like some of the top people
on the Forbes list. There's a lot of the
studies have said that a lot of them are
willing to go into the the negatives to
really be successful. What was your
perspective in relationship with taking
risk
>> managed? You know, I liked, you know,
remember I talked about the crossover. I
was never going to go risk the crossover
money uh for everything. You know, it's
kind of like what are you left with, you
know, that you can risk to try and build
wealth. Um you know, now I don't really
need it. You know, I have a different
attitude about money. My relationship
with money is amazing and I'm super
happy with it. Like I don't need any
more money. I really don't I don't even
want any more money. I mean, I do
because I'm giving it away, but I'm not
going to risk anything to make any more
money because I can't spend the money I
have in, you know, 20 lifetimes taking
care of everybody. Family, nieces,
nephews, cousins, three generations
down, everyone's taken care of. So,
>> great great grandkids,
>> great great grand. Yes. Literally. And
you know what? So, why am I going to
take a risk? You know, some people I see
out there are taking huge risk. real
estate guys I know who are worth on the
on the Forbes list you mentioned who are
worth five 10 billion still signing
personally on construction loans I'm
like I can't imagine why in their 80s
you know what I'm saying they're worth
10 billion dollars they're in their 80s
they're signing personally on a loan I
mean what is the point what are you
trying to do they just can't help it I
you know game for them at this point
it's a game but you know it's a game of
risk that I'm not you know I was not
willing to take I obviously took risk
and I obvious obviously, but I bet on
myself. I bet on my properties I was
buying. I was buying properties at
amazing prices. I was so confident. I
would take every penny I had and put
those in and I would do it all over
again. But I didn't deem that to be risk
because I was operating the properties.
I knew the rules of the program and I
knew that I was going to make money
here. They they they say that the being
rich is being able to take care of
yourself and your family for this
generation. But being wealthy is being
able to take care of your family, your
children's family, and for the
generations to come.
>> Yes.
>> And you became a billionaire through
real estate.
>> But I'm sure not every deal that you did
went went great, went well. Could you
tell us a story about maybe a deal that
you did that went wrong and where you
lost millions and what you kind of
learned from that?
>> Yep, we all have them. Um, so here I am
talking about the section 8 stuff, but
you know, I'm still believing. You start
to drink your own Kool-Aid. I'm a
genius. I can do anything. So
>> believe in the hype.
>> You believe in your own hype, you know,
and it's you're hyping yourself. You
know, it's you in the mirror and you're
still like, you know, you're still lying
to the mirror. And so I got involved in
a project where I bought this defunct
development out in uh one of the deserts
of California and there was a golf
course and homes that were built, but
then all the lots were vacant and the
golf course was slowing down. The place
was in bankruptcy. And I came in and I'm
like, I'm going to turn this thing
around. I'm going to build this I was
very in still am into wellness. I'm
going to create this wellness resort.
I'm going to make it like this worldass
golf. I'm going to sell lots. I'm going
to, you know, build houses. I'm going to
do all these amazing things there. And
we went down the path and I signed
personally on a lot of loans uh to make
it happen. I believed in this project. I
believed in myself. I got investor money
in there. I put a lot of my own money
that I was making from my other housing,
but leveraged it and put it into this
project. And 2008 came, 2009, and crash.
second home market was the first to go
because these were second homes, you
know, for people who are retired and
bam, they crashed. People at that time
used to be able to buy a lot. Like,
let's say you were going to buy a lot to
build a house in one of these
developments. Florida was notorious for
it. You could get a 100% loan on a lot.
You can't get an anything loan on a lot.
Um, you could get a 100% loan. So, you
buy a lot for 300,000 and you just get a
loan from the bank for 100%. it cost
you, you know, whatever, you know, six,
seven, you know, whatever, 20,000 a year
to service it. So, that's how people
were buying my lots. Again, drinking my
own Kool-Aid as if people believed in my
project. They didn't believe in the
project. They just wanted to buy lots
because they wanted to flip them to make
money. Um, the bank that I had signed up
everything with went under uh like a lot
of banks did then. And the new bank that
came in that was backed by the
government came after me like freaking
Putin came after Ukraine. I mean it was
a horrible horrible time. And um I had
to fight through that. I still had all
my other real estate stuff going on, you
know, that was all good. But this
diversion into something totally
different, building golf courses and
houses and all these sorts of things was
just my ego. My ego got ahead of me and
it almost took me down. It almost took
me down and I fought through. I had so
many little moves I made. I could
probably write a book on it. I can't
give you the one singular move. I mean,
I would tell you the one thing I did
because this bank was a very popular
bank in Southern California and a lot of
real estate investors are with them. And
when the other bank took him over,
everybody was getting hammered by the
new bank out of North Carolina.
I was unbelievably nice to them.
Everybody else was wanting to sue them
and tell them to screw themselves and
lawyering up and I gave them all the
documentation they needed and everything
everything. And then one guy was the
head of special assets who was basically
like the general to kill everybody. I
remember one time he goes, "You know,
you're a good guy. I'm going to lay off
you for a while. I got other guys to
worry about. Just start working on
getting me repaid and I'll give you some
time." So, you know, they talk about
going in with honey. that helped me and
then I was able to get my feet under me
and ultimately negotiate my way out of
that mess, but it cost me $25 million
out of my net worth at the time.
>> What What was your strategy for building
relationships with banks? Because you
look at you go back to the 80s and the
'90s. Banks kind of operate a lot
differently then they do now especially
kind of for our generation coming up in
the sense that back then you go into a
bank it was super easy to get a loan and
get money whereas in today's world they
all went under
>> right in the 80s and and so kind of in
today's world is it's like you know the
famous saying that a bank's only going
to give you money when you don't need
the money right and in other words it's
like they'll give it to you because it's
proven you're going to like company like
Apple they're still borrowing money
every quarter but it's because it's it's
it's proven how did you build your
relationships with banks early on and
maybe some advice to people in today's
world that are starting to trying to get
access to that capital for their
developments, their projects, their
investment, whatever it may be.
>> Yeah. I mean, look at look, banks, I
don't really trust banks because they've
turned on me. They turned on me in the
late ' 80s. They turned on everyone, not
just me. They turned on everyone in 2008
and n boom, they pulled the rug out.
Most of them closed down. So, they're
kind of like your friend when
everything's good, but when everything's
bad, they're gone. And now you're
dealing with new banks. So, you know, I
wouldn't go all in on any one bank. You
know, you have to have different
relationships. You have to leverage what
you can bring to the table. Like let's
say there's like there are so many like
if I went to City as big as I am, if I
went to, you know, I don't want to
disparage them. They're nice people. I
actually know them. City or Wells or
Bank of America, I'm kind of a as big as
you guys think I am. I'm a blip on their
radar screen. Then there's a bank here
that's about a$15 billion bank where all
of a sudden I mean a lot to them. Like
I'm one of their biggest clients. I hold
deposits there. You know, I bring a lot
of business to them. So, they're really
really, you know, wanting my business.
There are smaller banks that are like
billion-dollar banks out there and
they're dying for my business. So, you
kind of have to spread it around. You
have to figure out where you are in the
ecosystem and what you can bring to the
table. a lot of people like I just
invested in this young entrepreneur who
um who just really had no resources
because that's a lot of them on my
giving side and he just bought this
paving company in Bakersfield and I was
kind of the main investor. I took a
chance on him you know to me it's like I
hope it works but it's not going to
change my life and he's just set going
to Chase. I'm like you can't go to
Chase. Chase is so big you're going to
be nothing that the teller will barely
know you. let me set you up with one of
my small banks and they'll recognize you
and when you want to grow and buy
another company, you'll be able to go to
them and they'll know who you are. And
he kind of fought me on it because
everyone gets in their mind, Chase is so
big and this and that. I'm like, look,
you're never going to be, you know,
Caterpillar. Like, give me a break.
You're going to always be a small guy, a
small businessman. So, stay in your lane
and find banks that appreciate you where
you have the ability to be important to
them as they are to you. Before the uh
the podcast, there was some talk about
uh Trump's book, The Art of the Deal.
And you know, real estate in many
businesses, there's a ton of
negotiations going on every single day.
In your career, what would you say is
the best negotiation advice that you
could give out there?
You know, first control the first
contract. You know what I'm saying? If
if you can control the first contract.
So that means that you put the contract
out, let them make comments to you. That
was kind of one of the big best things.
I always had in-house counsel. So, I had
a a uh a woman who worked for me. She
was an assistant for me in 1993, went
back to law school, and she's been my
main counsel ever since. So, we would
always fight because she could do it so
fast as opposed to an outside law firm
that takes forever, and then it's on
their terms. So, I like controlling the
contract process. Um, for me
when I was a buyer, so this is kind of
funny like I'm now that you guys are
just making me think of things I didn't
think about. So when I was a buyer in
the early 2000, there was a big company
called AMCO and somehow they had been
their REIT. They had bought all kinds of
companies and they somehow ended up with
all this section 8. They didn't even
know what it was and they were selling
it and they started selling it. I came
in there other people trying to buy it.
There weren't a ton of people, but they
had the most onesided contract you've
ever seen. It basically said that they
could just change their mind at the last
second and not sell it to me. Now, I
knew that wasn't going to be their
thing. They're a public company or
whatever. So, I remember we negotiate as
hard as we could. And my lawyer at the
time, wasn't the woman said, "I will not
let you sign this contract. It you can't
sign it." And I go, "I'm signing it." I
was making an unbelievable deal on it.
So, I signed the contract and I did it.
And I bought so many buildings from
them. And I remember hearing from the
guy who was the head of their
dispositions. It got back to me going,
"I like dealing with Pearlman. He
doesn't overnegotiate with me." And he
signs what we do and he just goes and
does what he says he's going to do. He
doesn't retrade. I built a I built a
great reputation of not retrading.
Everybody in real estate, especially in
this town, retrades. You know what a
retrade is?
>> A retrade is when you tell somebody
you're going to pay a million and right
before closing you go or removing all
your contingencies, you go, you know,
this building doesn't work for me. I'll
give you 900,000. When you're a seller,
it's like a punch to the gut. So, I made
it a position to never retrade. I would
go in, I'd say, if I'm buying it for
that price, I didn't retrade. I built my
reputation on that. Brokers would bring
me deals or they wouldn't bring other
people deals because they would say,
"Hey, this guy does not retrade. He
always closes. He's always fair." And,
you know, I kind of kept that reputation
to this day. Now, there's lots of people
like that. And, you know, some people
don't care about that reputation.
Everybody just wants the highest price,
but there's a great chance that you're
going to get retraded. So, I built my
reputation on that and that really
allowed me to buy some of the best
returning deals of my life because of
that reputation. We talked about kind of
the strategy to build a relationship
with the banks. Were there any other
just necessary relationships that you
built in the cities that you were
located? Right. Obviously, section 8 is
I'm assuming there's got to be some sort
of relationship with the government
there,
>> correct? for for that young person
starting out in whatever city that it
may be. What are the necessary
relationships that they need to build
with the people in those cities?
>> I mean, that's what I was talking about
with the brokers, you know, with the a
with the people who control deals. They
need to know that you're real. You need
to know they need to know that you're
going to stand by your word that you're
going to close. All a broker wants to
make a fee. So, he needs to give the
deal to the person who's going to close
the deal. So, if he gives you the deal
and then you flake out, he's not going
to give you any more deals, right? If
you do give the deal to them and you
retrade the seller, which maybe cancels
the deal or the seller is so pissed off,
that's going to ruin his reputation.
He's not giving you more deals. So, what
you need to do is you really need to
build relationships with the people who
control the deals in the city. If you
control the deal, you can find the
money. There's tons of money. It wasn't
like that 30 years ago. There was no
money. There was nothing but deals in
the '9s. The government took back all
the banks. There were thousands and
thousands, thousands of buildings for
sale. Nobody could find money. Now
there's nothing but money out there, but
everyone's having difficulty finding the
deals. So go find your deals.
>> Most people spend their entire life
trying to accumulate wealth. Yet you've
made the the decision to give 75% and
the majority of your wealth away. What
was that conversation like to where you
brought it to your family like, hey, I'm
actually going to make this my mission
to give away the majority of my wealth.
As well as what do you kind of look for
and like what projects are you trying to
give that money to?
>> So that's an evolution like everything
else. And as I said, as we started, you
know, building wealth, um we started
doing a lot of uh giving in a lot of
different places. You we started
something called the Always Up
Foundation. Through that foundation, we
gave over 600 scholarships to mostly
first generation kids going to college
and built personal relationships. And
along the way, my family was involved
the whole thing. First is my wife and I
were partners and everything. Um and
then my kids participated in that
foundation, participated in the
activities. So giving was always part of
it and there was never like an aha
moment that 75% could be more. I mean
the whole point is is that the kids are
going to be set and then the rest of the
money is to be given away and there's
not a and the talk about it is is an
absolute yes. I mean my daughter works
for me at the change reaction. The
change reaction is what we started as
the platform to give money to people
here in uh Los Angeles. So having your
daughter or your kids work for you is
just amazing. You know they call, you
know the word Nepo babies?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I'm sure you guys heard of that
one. Um, a Nepo baby who works for you
in your giving platform and working and
helping you to give your money away is
the best Nepo baby out there because
you're teaching them and teaching her in
this case, you know, about what the
other world lives like, about what the
entire world lives like and yet how
separated you are and how all these
people in this world who are fighting,
many of whom weren't given a chance
starting at birth, um, and others who
are just fighting all sorts of odds,
that we're here to help them, that we
have the ability to go all in on this
community across every category of
people. We've got, you know, we we've
got people in hospitals right now, 12
hospitals, the biggest hospitals in the
city that we support them while they're
dealing with life-threatening illnesses,
helping pay rents, helping mothers pay
rent while they're there with their kids
with cancer. We're helping women who are
in domestic violence situations. We're
helping foster kids who've aged out and
have no families are in college and have
zero support system. We're helping
veterans. We're helping elderly folks.
It doesn't We have an entire ecosystem
here in LA of hardworking people. These
are all working folks that we're able to
stabilize with our funds here in LA. And
I'm having nothing but fun. I never say
no. Not never. We're about a 99% yes
rate. We've helped over 140,000 people
so far. And it's just, you know, it it
just it just changes your whole
perspective on wealth. You know, the I
would tell you which most people don't
know, my best friends and partner, well,
my best friends don't even know, my
business partners who are also best
friends, I brought in some younger
business partners, which is a great
move. Um, one of the reasons I did the
deal in 2022 is because I was having so
much fulfillment and fun giving the
money away that I needed to explode my
liquidity to give it away. You mentioned
you found that fulfillment. Was there a
period of time when you were at the top
of the world in your business? And I
asked you this because I recently
interviewed a very successful private
equity VC gentleman uh who made hundreds
of millions of dollars in in in that
space. And you know, the focal point of
the interview that we ended up getting
to uh was he said that he was having the
conversation with his wife that 80% of
people that are worth more than $25
million are miserable,
>> right?
>> Was there a and and I and I asked him, I
said, um, you know, after you made over
$50 million in a year, how did you find
fulfillment? And he goes, I shouldn't
say. And I go, what do you mean? And he
goes, putting putting a gun in your
mouth saying, I can't do this anymore.
Did you ever have maybe not that
extreme, but did you have a moment when
you were immensely successful where you
were like is there's got to be more than
this because otherwise you just keep on
chasing more and more. Did you ever have
a moment like that?
>> No. And you know what I you know when I
talked about everything happens slowly.
Yeah.
>> You know my wealth built slowly.
>> I even started acquiring things slowly.
So like I told you I have a house in the
beach but before I bought the house I
rented for eight years. Same thing in
the mountains. You know, before I bought
that house, I rented there for 12 years.
Or not maybe not quite 12 years. It's
probably 10 years. But, you know, I did
everything slowly along the way. So,
along the way, I never got I never got
over my skis. You know, I think like I'd
be I'd be concerned for people and
myself. I don't know how I'd been if I
had made, you know, billions of dollars
quickly and young. Um, you know, as I
was growing, my kids were growing, you
know, my family was growing. It was
really and my giving was growing. And so
I was and if you guys knew me back then,
I've been happy back then. I I've been I
go out, I party, I travel the world. I
have a great time. I have a great
outlook on life. I love health and
fitness. I like partying at night. I
like it all. Okay. But the giving aspect
was something to really keep you
grounded. And when I gave the first big
check that I gave, and that was before I
was doing the direct giving, I gave a
$100,000 check to an organization. The
guy said to me something, and I remember
I never talked to this guy again, but
they came, he was working, was called a
development guy, and the development
people raised money. And I'm like, I
really love what you guys are doing.
What's the appropriate amount? They
were, it was a capital campaign for
something building they were building.
And he goes, you know, somebody told me
this that if it's important to you, give
so it hurts.
And so I remember at the time I was
building everything up and it's probably
2002 or three. And you know, I was
accumulating wealth, but again, it's on
paper because just real estate, but some
cash. And I gave a $100,000 check. I
think my previous biggest gift ever was
$5,000. But it was really important to
me and the work they were doing in the
city. And
I felt great about it. First, I got
scared. well, how am I going to do this?
But I wasn't really scared because I was
confident I could make money. But that
indicated how important it is to me. And
so along the way, I continued to kind of
make my giving hurt. You know, last
year, well, this year I'm on track to
probably give $30 million away. Um
because the wildfires here really broke
my heart. Um and that's a whole
different thing. So, uh but I'm ready to
just continue on that path. I'm ready to
make it hurt. There was almost a time I
was going to do a big capital gift for
an institution here. Give me an
opportunity to name a children's
hospital because we fund the families in
that hospital more than anybody in the
city. But I didn't want my name on
anything. I don't like that.
>> Why?
>> I just I just feel like you maybe a
children's hospital I'm okay. I feel
like you're I feel like it's building
your own brand when you put your name on
something.
>> Basically telling everybody look what I
did. you know,
>> which says a lot about the person that
you are though because a lot I mean some
people may want to give but they also
want people to know in the fact that
you're it's it's very selfless.
>> They want to brand themselves as
philanthropists rather than be
philanthropists. That's a financial
transaction. And you know, we talked
about it as a family when we were like
ready to do it and then we decided that
it wasn't giving. Yeah. Every It's It's
amazing. This is going to sound like
kind of BS in a way, but everything I do
is it's heartbased giving. Literally, it
comes from the heart. And my heart can
crack open on a lot of different things.
And if it cracks open, there's no
stopping my wallet. No stopping it
because I'm all in because my heart
broke open.
>> You put the card You put the card on the
table.
>> It just it's on there. It's cracked.
When the when the fires came, it cracked
open. We gave the first seating gift to
to the wildfire fund that I started and
it's still one of the biggest individual
gifts. And that's just the start where
we've helped thousands of families with
checks. Thousands literally on the
ground. I hired 11 additional people
full-time to be on the ground intaking
people, elderly women that lost families
who lost everything, have no resources,
in churches with them, crying with them,
praying with them, getting them housing,
bought a thousand sets of furniture to
furnish their new housing, bought so far
over 80 cars for people, work trucks,
tools, everything. This is what you do
when your heart cracks. You know, I'll
give you like a most random thing. My
heart cracked when I read the story of
this guy from No One Left Behind, which
he made, which a movie was made about
it, about the interpreters in Iraq and
Afghanistan that we were leaving behind.
And I was like, how the hell could that
happen? These guys serve with our army.
We got to like get them over here. And
when they were coming over, they were
destitute. Even when they finally let
them in through the visa thing where we
kind of turned our backs. And so I went
all in. I was like, "No, I furnished
apartments for those guys. I got them
housing. I got them cars. I still have
I've got a thousand car loans with 0%
interest that these guys pay on and they
never missed a payment. I paid for 800
tickets for people to leave Kabool who
are all working for our country because
it got my heart. It's all heartbreed
that deal in March of 22. You I haven't
bought anything. I didn't need anything.
I didn't buy one material thing. I'm not
saying not anything. Bought a few
mountain bikes, but you know, minimal
things and buy another house and buy
another car and buy a watch and buy
anything.
>> No jet, nothing like that.
>> Nothing. I had that.
>> But it's safe to say then the more money
it just amplified the person of who you
were cuz there is this big notion in
society that the the the top 1% the
richest people in the world are like
evil. You know what I mean? But at the
end of the day, it it amplified you
because that's kind of what you were at
your core. And it kind of just made you
want to do more of that.
>> It it it's just guys I would what I if
you ever came to my office, my sister
made a board for me of thank you notes,
like 20 of them, like this collage. I've
gotten 30 to 40,000 thank you notes. Do
you know how many people tell me that I
got somebody who said, "I'm now, you've
actually planted a seed that I'm now
rethinking my interest in God because
I'd long ago forgot given up on him
because of a gift that I gave of $2,500
or 2,000 to pay rent for somebody." That
every day you have I don't know who you
are. I can't believe a stranger would do
this, but after the fires, you are the
one that gave me hope. You've given me
hope. You're an angel. You're you've
restored my faith in humanity. This is
what I get to do. This is what I get to
do with my money. I get to lift up my
neighbors. And these are just neighbors.
These are working folks. Working people
because that's what I was always focused
on. I think from the section 8 world, I
saw a lot of people that didn't work.
>> You were you were on the ground level
with them.
>> I was on the ground level and they were
not working and they were getting a lot
of subsidies. What about the guy that
makes or the woman who's a single mom
making $15 an hour and raising kids,
doing everything we said you're supposed
to do in this country? Try living on $15
an hour and raising a kid. And somehow
they're doing it. Then her car breaks
down. Boom. What's that going to lead
to? A job loss. We have set up I've got
over 2,000 nonprofit workers, teachers,
social workers. Everyone in the city
knows that they can come to the change
reaction to stand up for those people
and fix their emergencies and make sure
that they don't slide down, that they
don't get evicted, that they don't lose
jobs. And that's what we've done for the
city. And that's why I am just bouncing
off the walls about the fact that I get
to do this. And that's why I wanted to
liqufy my money in 2022 was like, I want
to go even bigger. And when the fires
came, I was able to. Boom. started off.
We're already $22 million in. I'm now
funding the gaps for all these poor
folks that didn't have the amount of
insurance to rebuild their houses. I
started a new program that I'm giving
them the gap so they can rebuild. I
mean, it's just the crying. I go out
there, I go to Alt, I show up for these
people like the like the rest of my
team, the crying. You walk into a room,
nobody wants to talk to anybody. When
the change reaction, when my team walks
into a room at a gala or anything,
people don't care that this celebrity is
there, that celebrity is there, they
want to just come meet us. They can't
believe that we're there because we
showed up for them because we're the
ones that cared about the people on the
front lines, you know, and that's what
we get the power to do. And I don't know
why more people don't do it and don't
understand. This is the fun stuff.
>> I I was I was going to ask about that.
So, we uh we interviewed a uh another
gentleman who's who's a billionaire that
uh his name is John Morgan and and he
went on a show called on on a YouTube
channel called Jubilee where basically
it was like 20 people get to uh I guess
interrogate a billionaire for that was
kind of like the the point of the show
and they were asking they're like hey
like you know you know the concept of a
billionaire they have all this money why
don't they just like help every single
person in the world why don't you just
give money to everybody in the world and
uh I I'm I'm very curious to get your
take on do you think that people that
amass that amount of money should have
an obligate like do you think there's an
obligation for them to turn around and
and give that back?
>> I absolutely
believe that though the mandates of it
are a slippery slope because it's just
like your mom when your mom told you to
do something how'd you feel like ah I'm
not doing it. It's got to come from the
heart. You know most giving is a
financial transaction. Oh I get my name
on a building. Oh I'm going to the gala.
I'm being honored. Oh I'm doing this.
So, I'm going to buy a table. You'll see
you guys are making money. You're going
to be hit up for stuff and you're going
to do stuff because, hey, my friend
started this thing, so I want to give
thousand bucks, 5,000, whatever it is.
But your heart's not going to be into
it, you know, and that's how most giving
is done. And there's some
philanthropists are amazing. The most
amazing philanthropist who's just beyond
is Mackenzie Scott Bezos because when
Jeff divorced her and left her with $40
billion, she's like, "What am I going to
do with all this?" So, she gives away
billions of dollars a year to
organizations all over the country. kind
of had the same attitude I did. You
know, I think that you I think you have
to I I I I will tell you guys this and I
know my wife doesn't even like hearing
it because she thinks I say it too much,
but this isn't just me just trying to be
humble. You know, people humble brag.
This is not that. I am rich and wealthy
because I'm lucky. Let's just face it,
okay? I work hard. I'm smart. But if
those are the two things that qualified
you to become wealthy, we'd have 25
million wealthy people in this country
and we don't. There's plenty of rich
people, plenty of hardworking, smart
people out there, smarter than me with
better schools, all this sort of stuff.
Work 50, 60, 70 hours a week. You get
lucky. First off, I was lucky how I was
born. I was born to a really good
family. Raised me right. Cared about me.
Let me go to great colleges. born
healthy, born in this country, all these
different factors. Right out of the
gate, I was born on second or third
base, you know. So, let's just face it
that I'm lucky. Do you really think when
I bought my real estate in the 90s, I
thought it'd be worth this right now.
And any of these guys who do just just
throw water on them. It's all BS. It's
all luck. So when you start to really
think like that that man, I was just
blessed, you know, then you maybe start
to say, well, I kind of not that I don't
deserve this, but it's like it's
incumbent on me to do something more
important from it. If you think that you
just worked your ass off, you start to
think, well, all these other people
could do the same. And the reason
they're not rich is because they didn't
work like I did. And that's how 90% of
the wealthy people think.
So you start to think about how lucky
you were and how fortunate and how real
estate. You think I thought when I
started interest rates were 9%. My rents
are triple. I bought my buildings in
Venice Beach. My rents were $700 and now
$4,000 a month. Do you think I ever
thought that? And anybody who says they
did is lying. Okay. Interest rates are 8
to 10%. You ever think I could get 3%
interest rates? I didn't even know how
that could be possible. In the 80s they
were 18%.
So just get off your high horse. Start
recognizing your fortune and life and
just lift up your neighbors. You have
the ability to be freaking the most
unbelievable human being. Don't do it,
you know, just do it because it makes
you because your heart is open. Just let
the world know that you care. And if we
get that way with the wealthy doing it,
you know, at some point people are going
to come for the wealthy. You heard about
the guy who's like maybe going to win in
New York.
>> Zohan. Yeah. Mom Donnie,
>> what's he talking about? I want to take
the money from the wealthy. It's like
Robin Hood and I want to give people
free child care and free buses and
whatever. And everyone's going crazy,
right? Billionaires are going berserk.
You wouldn't need a guy like that if the
billionaires are stepping up already. Be
like, "Hey, lay off our billionaires.
They take care of us. They're already
giving us this." But you naming some
museum isn't going to help the guy who
needs child care.
It's not going to do it. Show the
community you care. And we have the
power. And it's fun, guys. I'm not
railing. I'm railing with a smile. I am
having so much fun giving this money
away.
>> My team is having fun. I get to do it
every single day. I get to lift
somebody's life. I wake up and this is
the easy part. This is what you guys can
do. We get the easy part to become
givers. A lot of people go, "I need to
be Greg Prma wealthy." How about you
guys wake up every day and go, you know
what? I want I I'm gonna look for the
opportunity to help somebody today.
Maybe that's guys cleaning the street
and you go shake his hand and go, "Hey,
listen. I thank you for your work." Or
maybe you give him a 20, you know, or
maybe you hear about somebody in your
circles and you go, "You know what? I
want to help that guy out. He just lost
his job. You know what? I'm going to go
help him pay his rent today." Whatever
you can do, you guys just wake up. I
want to help somebody today. Anyone can
do that. You don't have to be my wealth
to do that. And then you start laying
that foundation. See how that makes you
feel. Wow. Wow. That guy cried on my I
never saw my friend cry before. I did
that. That's pretty powerful. Okay. I
like that. I want to do more of that.
You know, just do that. Everybody
listening to this, everyone in the world
can have that mindset. I have that
mindset times 100. And I have a team of
people finding me opportunities of
people to help.
>> What was the the scout slogan? do a good
turn daily. We're all Eagle Scouts.
Yeah. So, we we always
>> I got it. And those are all great
things. I was in the Boy Scouts and I
remember it was it was good stuff and
they taught us great things. And you
know what the truth is is that you can
do it in a much more impactful way. You
can, you know, you guys can be so
effective and you don't realize it just
takes that takes that mindset.
Bam.
>> Yeah. We uh we interviewed a uh a health
healthcare executive and he he brought
up this concept to us about sharpening
the saw that basically to be a high
performer you have to sharpen the saw.
And what he meant by that was if you
gave Abraham Lincoln 5 hours to cut down
a cherry tree, he'd spend the first four
sharpening the axe. And so for him, he
said like for him when I go play tennis,
when I go sailing and do these things
that aren't like super like clouding the
mind with all this information, uh it
helped him sharpen the saw. And so
before we started the podcast, we talked
about, you know, you've made your work
and your health equal importance for you
is the amount of time you're competitive
tennis player. You mountain bike
religiously. Um, I want you to break
that down like for entrepreneurs and
because there's a lot of entrepreneurs
and business uh professionals that watch
this podcast that probably run
themselves into the ground trying to
build a great company. What What's your
perspective on that?
>> As I said, I could count the amount of
times in two hands I was in the office
past six o'clock.
wasn't to me the most important thing
because you know I started recognizing
this whole thing about wealth. I started
realizing, look, I want to give money
away. You know, that's why I really
wanted to become wealthy. I recognized
that about 15, 20 years ago. Um, but I
kind of probably internally knew that,
too. You know, I had this amazing wife.
I have amazing kids that I'm so close
with, one who worked with me. The other
ones I know eventually will work with
me. They both live, the two boys live in
New York. Daughter lives here, so she
works with me. And you start recognizing
what's important in life. And you know
to kill yourself
to just grind yourself to the ground to
your death just to acquire things to
work that hard to acquire bigger this
better that for what wasn't that
important to me. It's more important to
me that I became a better tennis player
because in the weekends I'd played
tournaments. So, I was out of the office
training, working out, hitting at at
that time, that was the 90s. Same thing
now, riding. Riding does a lot of
different things for me, and I'm not
really competing at it, but I love it.
Nothing makes me happier. My endorphins
are flying through the roof. I'm on such
a high. I mean, why wouldn't you just
want to do something gives you a high?
Now, you know, except for drugs giving
you a high, but whatever gives you that
high, whatever your high is, mine
happens to be athletics and fitness,
whatever your high is, go pursue that.
Whatever it is, if it's writing poems or
collecting stamps, I don't know,
whatever the zillion things people have,
you got to you got to figure out what's
giving you that high.
And you know, you just can't go all in
on just making money. And I know there's
people out there who like, you got to
work hard, you got to work hard, you got
to do this, you got to do this. And I
get it. There's no easy street. You
can't just coast. But, you know, you
have to get your priorities straight.
You have to figure out what is it all
about. Okay. Thank God I got the
northstar of giving because that
actually started driving me to work
harder to take more risk even and build
this pot of wealth to give it away. That
was actually the driving force behind me
because at that point I had everything.
>> Yeah. We like to end these podcasts off
by asking two questions to our guests
and I'll start with mine and let Jack
ask his. My one for you is Greg. If me
and you died tomorrow and you had one
more guiding principle to leave with the
younger generation, what would that be?
>> You know, getting away from this thing
being about wealth, you know, to me,
balance. Please keep balance. I just
don't think I I I'm not I I don't love
the overwork. I love the balance in life
that people can get. And if you're
driven to make money for good purposes,
then go go go drive yourself for that.
But if you're driven just so that you
can buy bigger things and buy more stuff
and put yourself in more, you're, you
know, you become a slave to those sort
of things, when you get more wealth, you
guys are going to see it. You're young,
you're doing great, you start buying a
bigger house, you start getting kids,
you start putting them in private
schools, you start doing all this stuff,
you're now enslaved, golden handcuffs.
Maybe this isn't a job, but now you're
you're there's people who make a million
dollars a year and they're slaves to
their jobs because they've created such
a huge life. Don't do it. Create the
balance. Figure out what's important. If
you want to be a slave to making money,
make sure it's to do good things, not
just to do bigger things, not just to be
the biggest guy on the block. Don't do
it for ego. That's my number one thing.
I feel like that's what I did and that's
why I walk around happy and smiling and
fulfilled in life pretty much 99% of a
day.
>> And uh on the concept of if tomorrow was
your last day, how would you want to be
remembered?
>> I'd like to be remembered as somebody
who cared and somebody who showed up for
people because I've done that in many,
many ways um across the board. I'd like
to be and that to me is a bigger form
along with the money of being generous.
You know, when you're generous with
time, you're generous with your energy,
generous with mentoring, generous
financially. So, being generous with all
those aspects, not just my money, which
I've been generous obviously, but the
idea that I've showed up for people and
been generous with my time and cared
about them, that that to me is where,
you know, I've thought about at my
funeral. I want to be remembered for
showing up for people. People knew that
I truly cared about them. I wasn't here
just doing it for me. I care about these
people. I meet them and I care about
them and I just wrap my arms around him
and then I'm able to help him
financially. So that's what I want to be
remembered for.
>> I love it.
>> Amazing answer and beautiful podcast,
brother. Guys, that's a wrap on today's
episode with an absolute legend. Be sure
to like and subscribe for amazing
content we've got coming every week
because we're bringing you guys the
biggest business owners in the entire
world. We're going to put the link down
to Greg's socials and you know programs
down below so that way you guys can
check out all the incredible work that
he's doing. And guys, if you want direct
access to the multi-millionaires and the
billionaires that we interview every
single week, the three of us launched
and built the number one entrepreneur
community in the entire world, where
every week we host live calls with the
eight, nine, and 10 figureure
entrepreneurs we interview, where they
mentor you directly and answer all of
your questions to help you get started
in building your first million-dollar
business. So, we can't wait to see on
the inside. The link to become a member
of the School of Mentors, the number one
most powerful entrepreneur community
network in the entire world, is down in
the description. We can't wait to see
you on the inside. With that being said,
we'll see you in the next