We are out with Lynwood Bivvens, the
founder and CEO of Reach TV. Before even
starting this company, you did about two
billion across all the other businesses
that you had before then. You've built
companies during the com crash and tech
and media and entertainment. What's the
one business principle that has stayed
consistent throughout the entire time?
>> I think media has this power and I
realized people know hardware, people
know software, and people know content.
There's not many people that know all
three.
>> Mhm. So we built that in 2001 when
everything was going crazy from zero to
100 million in 4 years. Content is king
but distribution is empty. We created a
new right to the right of digital
>> just like Netflix, right?
>> Yes. I stole what Netflix did and put it
on the other side.
>> They have content. What they don't have
is distribution where you have it.
>> Yes. Correct.
>> We were flying from St. Louis back to
Austin. I looked on the TV. I saw Reese
TV. I thought of you. And Lynwin, how do
you want to be remembered?
>> What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James and I'm here with Jack and
Josh and we have an incredible guest for
you all today. We are out in New York
City right now with Lynwood Bibbons who
is an incredible entrepreneur. He's done
billions of dollars in business
throughout his career and he is the
founder and CEO of Reach TV, which in my
opinion has got to be one of the coolest
businesses in the world. You can ask
yourself right now, have you ever been
to the airport? Have you ever seen any
of the uh TVs throughout the airports on
the planes? You can thank this man right
here for or I'm sorry, you can thank
them for that 100%. But I think Lim,
what's one of the most fascinating
things is before even starting this
company, you you did about two billion
across all the other businesses that you
had before then.
>> Yeah.
>> And I want to get things started because
you know, you built companies during the
com boom, the dot crash, and tech and
media and entertainment. What's the one
business principle that has stayed
consistent throughout the entire time?
No matter what era you've been in, the
most consistent business principle
that's ever been there,
>> serve your customer. You know, if you
had three words that have to be at serve
your customer and then I would almost
add the word overs serve your customer.
So I always felt businesses thinking who
am I serving? How do I serve them? How
do I keep serving them? And then what's
the ecosystem to serve them? And then
once you figure out that ecosystem, how
do you keep making it more efficient,
more efficient, more efficient, more
efficient, more efficient? And um but
keep the eye on the prize this the
customer, right? And so I think that's
been able to help us. And sometimes
what's funny is you can do it and not
your business not may not be being
successful for what you think success
is. The other problem I think a lot of
times when I was especially my early in
my career, we built a company with like
30 guys. I went to college with, right?
So, one, I I was known as the Coco knife
guy because I sold CCO knives when I was
a kid uh when I was in college and I
actually did really well. I sold like
$25,000.
>> That's the original hustle right there.
>> That that was it. I saw 10 bucks. It may
not sound like a lot to you, but for us,
10 bucks an hour like what is this? And
then I sold Coco KN. So, next thing I
know, I saw $25,000 worth of knives.
They had me come in d I open up my own
office. I learned all the lease and
hiring. I'm hiring people that went to
college with I was partying with this
guy doing keg stands. I'm like now I'm
in there with a suit hiring people. But
um when I started with my with my
buddies, I I came in to help them get
organized and then I was the number one
sales guy within eight months and then
they couldn't afford to pay me to sales
where they were paying me on sales. So I
became a partner. in that partnership,
we grew the business, but it was growing
so fast in a complicated mail orderer
business back in the early 90s. Um, but
what we didn't know because we were in
our own bubble, we were doing like $38
million in revenue. Nobody was doing
that like as a small company, but we
weren't making a lot of money. So, when
I went to my college professor and hey
man, give me some ideas like we're 38
million. We're making like a million.
You had his business in college?
>> Right after college.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Yeah. So, right after college, four of
was four. It was uh Shu, Vic, uh Chuck,
I didn't really know, but the three of
those three guys, two guys were my
partners and I went to college with him.
And then we hired like all of our guys
from college. So, it was like we all
worked like 90 hours, but it was with
our friends, so we didn't care. It was
all of us just going at it. Then we work
on the weekends. We do computer shows.
We were nuts. But the crazy part is we
were building this business and we
didn't know what the street like what
they valued it at. We're a bunch of
college kids trying to build a business.
Um so when we were running through we're
like damn we got to make more money.
What are we going to do? We didn't know
the outside perception. So when I went
to the professor and said what do you
think? He's like give me a day. I'm
gonna come back to you. So I keep
relationships so I can tap into them and
and I'm always humble about it. So I
think staying humble is important. And
so I was like, "Tell me what what you
see." Came back and he goes, "Dude, I
talked to three different people. Your
one times revenue is your value. You can
be two times in your business. There's
nobody who's small doing anything more
than 5 to 10 million. Everybody's either
a big corporation that converted that's
doing 100 200 million and even they are
struggling. So what you're doing is
incredible."
>> Yeah.
>> Look, he's like, "How's your
relationship with your biggest
supplier?"
>> It's a great question.
>> And I started thinking back. I go,
"Well, great." He goes, "Well, we're
going to find out. Tell them that you're
thinking about selling and see how fast
they all want to be a part of it." So, I
called, there was two big suppliers. Uh,
one is out of North Jersey, one was out
of Boston. I called them at 11. I
remember it was like 11:02 in the
morning. I was just looking at it going,
"Okay, let's see if this plays out." By
11:30, they're can I come down and see
you tomorrow? Uh, both flew in. Drove in
and flew in. And by Friday, we had a
deal on the table. What?
>> So when you if you are delivering and
you're struggling, you don't know what
your supplier is making. You don't know
who else you're what you're feeding
into. You're only in your bubble.
Sometimes the aggress part about
business is taking a step back and
saying, "Who am I serving through this
eco? Who are my partners in this eco?
How am I serving them too?"
>> Because the best lesson about that is I
was serving my suppliers and I didn't
even know it.
>> I was looking at the people who were
buying my computers like that's who I'm
going after. But I was also serving my
suppliers. I was also serving brands. I
was also helping brands get themselves
into consumers in a different way.
Right? So it really was the best. It was
one of my first lessons of ask for help,
be humble,
look at the supply chain, look at your
delivery chain, and then find out are
you serving everybody or you just
serving yourself. And always get third
party advice on where's your value,
where's the value in the marketplace.
Because once we knew that, once we sold
that and we went to the company that
acquired us, we chose the one in North
Jersey, we were able to build it again
in two years.
>> Yeah.
>> Sold that. And then I started my own
company right after that again because
once you know how to serve people, what
the value is, you can start to look at
there's another way to create value
here. So, um, you know, just jumping
through that thing, the thing that steps
out to me the most is, um, when I
launched in 96,
I wrote it. 97 we launched. Um, my son,
my son was born in 98. So, I was
starting a business when I was about to
have my first kid. Um, and I was
starting a business that was an online
business that was called pickadw.com.
Um, and that was a six deal a day site.
So for you guys, the internet started
off as nobody knew what the hell it was.
Then it it became a place for
information. So what everybody did was
take a magazine and literally just shove
it on the internet.
>> So the internet sites used to be like a
magazine and you tap it and it go page
by page by page by page.
>> That was pretty much every website,
right? From Vogue to that was
everybody's website. In the computer
world, the consumer electronic world,
they would take their cataloges that
were like a two inches thick and they
would just throw them on the internet.
That was how you did it. So you had
buy.coms, you had all these things that
have catalogs.
>> Yeah.
>> So in 97 I said, "Well, that doesn't
make any sense. We're going to go from
information to transaction
and I'm in it and I can't do this." So
we decided to make it six deals a day.
That's it. Now we didn't have a lot of
money. we were starting up. So, we just
moved the deals around and made them
look different. But,
>> and what were these deals exactly? What
what was it?
>> 99. It was all computers and consumer
electronics. So, we would do um back to
schools laptop specials and it would
have uh tshiba laptop, a carrying case,
um something else we made up, we throw
something in like, you know, and um your
named out hand pads or whatever we
wanted to do. We made stories. You made
them funny. and and then we'd have a
business one with a portable printer and
you know we had all kinds of stuff we
just move around the idea was simplify
it people will buy
right and then I hired all the same guys
back and within
>> would you say simplify like the offer
>> yeah the offer is give people who wanted
to go through a catalog to figure this
out right you know I I often say you're
the expert in your business
>> so if you're the expert I come to you
you're supposed to give me
recommendations
Not just give me a catalog to look
through information. Like it's like if
you went to go get your car fixed,
imagine giving you a catalog and saying,
"All right, tell me what you want
fixed." You're like, "Whoa,
>> that's your job." So, I think people
don't look at that the other way around.
I'm coming to buy a computer from you.
>> Why would you give me a catalog?
>> I uh I I think with the the story about
you asking your old college professor to
help you with the business is so
fascinating. And you mentioned that
like, hey, I'm I'm really good at
developing relationships. You know,
we're a big proponent of, you know, when
we started doing interviews, we got to
meet on the street, we meet all of these
successful people and we've tried to
maintain those relationships as well cuz
I'm like, this is the best business
education you're ever going to get.
>> Like, if you have a question about
something with the business, you just
call someone up in your network who
knows hundred times more about this than
you do, and they can give you the keys
to the kingdom of how to achieve the
goal for you over the course of, you
know, your career so far. like how have
you been able to really develop
relationships and how do you approach
that because I know uh you know you said
serve your customer but I believe like
you could apply the same approach to
when you're building relationships with
people and providing value to people. I
>> I will give you the the warning first
and then I'll tell you how I do it. The
warning is do not make that
transactional.
Um, you know, I my buddy Biggs and we
always had this this slogan we keep
using a lot is um relationships over
transactions
>> because transactions will come,
>> relationships,
>> not so much. And I think I learned it
the most. Um, of course the college
professor was one of them. Um, but in 97
or '98, I got to meet a guy who I
I was almost it almost felt like as a as
a sports guy, it almost felt like you
hear Irish talk about how he saw Jordan.
For me, when I met Dick Parsons, it was
the same type of thing because I'm
sitting here watching this guy who looks
like me who is running a company that's
billions upon billions of dollars, is
one of the biggest companies in the
world with Time Warner AOL at the time.
and he was kind of fixing the AOL part
and he was the Time Warner guy. But I
just watched him manage
this entire big corporation with such
class and grace and humility but with
firmness that I I I just asked him, can
I come up and spend a day and can I, you
know, really lean in? And he was just
like, yeah, come on. Let me show you
some of the things. And we were working
on a deal is how it first started. But I
said, forget the deal. I want to
understand more of what how you got
here. How do I get there? Um and he
said, "Maybe you never come here. Maybe
your goal is to build businesses that
sell to people like me."
>> And so listening to him kind of guide
and and being open to listen allowed him
to pour his everybody wants to give
advice and help. Allow him. So, I think
the biggest thing for me is never make
it transactional because I've seen
people do that to me and I'm like, you
know, I want to help, but now you're at
like this doesn't even feel like you're
even asking me anything. You're you're
you're leveraging my um database or my
my relationships and you're not building
one with me.
>> Yeah.
>> So, like that's really my thing is are
you building a relationship and what you
asking for? Do you deserve to ask that
question?
I I ask myself that all the time. Have I
done enough in this relationship that
that question? Have I provided enough?
>> It's it's I think there's a lot to be
said about that. It's like, you know, I
mean, you don't want to put anybody on a
pedestal, but there's some people where
it's like you want to be sparingly where
it's like you don't want to take no
to this person.
>> Yeah. You know what I mean? Because
because I know we've all been on the
other end of that as well where it's
like, man, you're being approached. It's
like it really, you know, like is this
the conversation you wanted to waste on
this?
>> Hey, nothing worse. You you slid into a
group chat with a random number and this
other person be like, "Hey, Lynwood, I
want you to meet so and so."
>> Wait, that happens daily.
>> Wait, wait, wait. Can we set the record
straight right now though to to to make
it clear to never ever do that without
getting getting
>> I have a guy I think would be great. And
you know what? Here's the difference. If
I said that to anybody, any one of my
friends, they don't hesitate because
they know I thought about,
>> right?
>> They know that how much I treasure and
value giving out someone's personal
information, connecting somebody in.
>> I wouldn't do it unless I saw something.
And sometimes what I the people I'm
connecting don't see it. And I have
sidebar and say, "Listen, this is what I
see. This is what's going on. And this
is what you don't know, but I do know.
And this is where what you're doing
actually matches what they're doing.
Even though this doesn't look like it,
>> let me help. You know, I and I have an
idea that why I'm even doing it because
I see something that it could really
benefit. Even if people are doing things
in their own lane, you always plant that
seed. You just know that, hey, maybe
even not even now, but even a year from
now. And that's why I love that you're
talking about prioritizing the
relationship over the transaction
because it's like business is a 5 10
year thing. You know what I mean? It's
like we may not do a a deal right in the
next six months, but it's like maybe a
year or two years. And it's like if you
have that mindset, hey, we're both doing
our thing that it's like you don't know
what it can end up being.
>> No. I mean, there's so many people that
I met 97,98 99, 2004 that I end up
talking to in 2015 and doing a deal.
>> Wow.
>> Right. Um, you know, when people ask me,
how are you able to do a lot of these
things? I used to know when my son was
born, we would watch football NFL games
at Mount Laurel. They had a studio where
you could watch all the games and I knew
some people there. My buddy Rob worked
for the NFL films. So, I would just go
there. I end up meeting people I had no
idea that I'd ever do anything with.
Those people now run how I got my
license deal for the NFL for reach,
>> right? Same people, same guy I've known
almost 20 something years who I just
used to watch football games with on
Sundays, right? So, you never know. But
we've kept in touch here. Hey, what
about this? And we always just, you
know, kept each other in the loop.
>> Before we because I do really want to
dive into reach, but before we get into
that, something I find really
fascinating about your story. you just
dove into entrepreneurship pretty much
during college where you learned where
where you were doing Cutco Knives. Was
that where you got inspired to kind of
be like, "Okay, I can actually do my own
thing. There's something here." Or what
got you even into entrepreneurship?
Because it seems like right after
college, you just went all out and you
were just doing your own thing.
>> Um my grandfather, my grandfather was
from North Carolina, came up to New
Jersey. um in his coming up here he
worked for a garbage company decided to
open up his own garbage route ended up
growing that having like eight trucks
and then I won't get into in that time a
day you can't have eight trucks and some
guy who doesn't know anybody um so one
day they came out all eight trucks had
sugar in the gas tanks if you know
anything about that it really locks your
engine up um and so he ended up selling
his company working for that same
company and then again starting a
smaller one that he could manage but I
watched him work and then have his own
business and he just wanted and always
keep the same crazy positive attitude.
So um you know if you work with me if
you've known me for the last 30 40 years
I say the same thing everybody every day
like how you doing? I'm like I'm good.
I'm breathing. I got that from my
grandfather. He would not he would keep
asking you how you are until you said
I'm good because he's like I could tell
you a story about other people and how
they're not doing. So basically you say
shut up and deal with it like and and
and be appreciative and grateful for
where you are. But I learned
entrepreneurship and the work that goes
into it from him. And I thought I wanted
to be an accountant that like that's I
love numbers and I was like I was love
that was one of my favorite classes in
high school. But then when I learned the
cocoon knives and sitting in front of
people and seeing the dynamics of of um
going to friends parents that I didn't
even really know and now I'm better
friends with their parents than I am
those kids because we built a bond and a
relationship to a presentation
>> but the presentation was more about them
getting to know me than it was about the
product.
>> So do do you feel like Cutco Knives was
actually kind of like the foundation for
allowing you to go build those other
ventures? I think it was the confidence
I needed to build those other ventures
is it was the I saw President Obama say
this the other day and Telco did it for
me back then. He said sometimes you walk
into rooms just know this. He's like I'm
giving you a cheat code. You belong in
the room. A lot of times we we limit
ourselves because we don't think we
belong in the room. I'm going to tell
you right now if you're in this room you
belong in that room. There's nobody that
much smarter than you. Um, it's
opportunities. Who's going to do the
work and who's really going to pay
attention and and then if you don't know
it, who's gonna be humble enough to go
learn it.
>> So, we all belong in every
>> We're here.
>> Facts.
>> You mentioned that your grandfather, he
was in the garbage business, the the he
had garbage trucks and whatnot, which I
I love to think about and talk about
businesses like that because again, it's
not necessarily a super sexy business.
you yourself I think um for the most
part right tech media entertainment
>> I mean obviously you're in a very
specific niche right now with reach TV
how do you kind of approach addressing
markets are you someone that's always
liked going after like a big market with
a lot of competitors or are you someone
that kind of now is like you know I want
to find a specific niche and kind of go
be one of like the big one or two people
within that space
>> I always look at a big market I look at
are they serve how is that market being
served then I look and see okay is there
a is there a scalable version that's not
being searched so I I do a lot of
research I'm a nutcase on that so and so
I'll give you an example um with new
technology we used to buy um
excess inventory from from from
uh tier one Toshiba HP Acer type of
manufacturers and sell that to companies
like comp USA which isn't around but
like CDW buys people that you know and
then other company retailers that you
don't know serve the military and all
these other things right um what I was
doing wasn't unique but what I what I
found out was that the big tier one
manufacturers
were sell their products into
distributors like Ingram Micro Sex Tech
Data but the Wall Street started saying
well if you put if it goes from you to
them we're not going to count those
revenues
So it sounds like small, but that means
they can't get 15, 20, 30, $40 million a
month in revenue that they can't report
to the street. So if I could go in, help
them get those, bring that into my
place, take it off those books, so both
parties now can report revenue. I can
get better deals. I can help them.
Again, I serve who? Now I'm serving both
the manufacturer, I'm serving the
retailers and I'm serving the end user
who is now going to get a better deal
because I help this ecosystem and
quickly you could scale. When I started
looking at how much business that's been
sitting in those two warehouses talking
hundreds of millions of dollars a month.
So I was like if I could just get 10% I
can build a $10 million two 20 million.
We built that from zero in 2021 in 2001
when everything is going crazy from zero
to 100 million in four years and then
from a 100 million to 250 over the next
5 to seven years. And again the the
pivot in that was simple. We had all
these great partners, small businesses
that were partners with us. We were
doing really well. But um a lady out of
she's right out of New Jersey um I was
talking to her. I just, you know, picked
up the phone and said, "Hey, you know,
she's one of our smaller customers." I
was like, "You know, I really appreciate
your business." I just want to talk and
understand what else you do. And she's
like, "Well, you know, I serve AT&T is
my big customer." And I said, "Well,
let's talk about that. AT&T is a huge
customer. You know, you you have your
niche with them. You know, talk to me
about it." And she's like, "Well, you
know, we do all this. We do." And she
was giving me all these details. And
here's the one that stopped me in my
track. She's like, "Yeah, my contract's
like 22 million. um you know I do like
four million with you because you helped
me afford it.
I said can you go back to that sentence
again? You have a contract for what? She
said I have a contract for 22 million
but I can only afford the service four.
So okay. I said is this a common thing?
She's like yeah. So I'm a part of this
group and we're all trying to figure out
ways to finance. So there was something
called now you know it as CES but it's
ComDex CES. They kind of merged together
and I had meetings with everybody every
CES and ComX. So this meetings I said
15-minute meetings only and then we had
a party at night. Nobody was allowed to
re it wasn't really a meeting. They walk
in fill out a form. The form said what
how much business did we do now? How
much business do you have a contract
for?
And if we were able to if if you had
financing, could you fulfill that
contract? Yes or no? Those are the
questions. I They walked in. I said,
"Hello, fill this form out. See you
tonight for the party. Forget about this
business. We're gonna have fun." That's
my meeting with everybody. So, we had 30
meetings that day. Everybody came back
in. I looked at the papers, added them
up. The 30 companies added up to 195
million.
So, my job at that point became what? Go
find a structure to service the 195
million. So we went from 87 million one
year to 130 to 180 to 250 because we
found then I found a structure to
finance that gap. Not even a new
customer. No new customers. Existing
customers grew our business from 87 to
250 million.
>> Can you break down financing the gap?
>> Yes. So, we didn't have a big we had a
$10 million credit line, but I called
again asked for help. I called this guy
from Citizens Bank and I said, "Hey,
Mike." He was our banker and I said,
"Mike, let me ask you something. I'm
buying from Toshiba and I'm selling to
CDW.
Those are like two tier one companies
and I'm and sometimes I'm buying from
Ingram Micro.
You're telling me I need an $100 million
line of credit?" He's like, "No, no, no.
There's there's an idea. Hold on. Let me
come back to you. So, he came back to me
with an idea which was if you buy from
tier one and you're selling to tier one,
we'll be willing to bank that for you.
We'll put a lockbox agreement in, you
get your when the money comes in, you
get your cut, we get our monies. We we
would be open to that. And then I had a
problem. the small company I was talking
about her customer is AT&T but she's not
tier one so what we did is we created
joint ventures with all those small
companies so that we could have the end
>> partner AT&T as our tier one right so
now I created the vehicle that tier one
to tier one didn't touch my credit
facility whatsoever and I finance the
entire thing through our bank
Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, we uh I mean, we fly all the
time. So, for me, I was just in an
airport the other day. I was in we were
flying from St. Louis back to Austin.
Yes. I looked on the TV. I saw Reach TV.
I thought of you. I was just like, man,
this is so cool. How did how how did you
get the idea for Reach TV?
>> Um I did film finance for seven years.
Um, in that time frame, I saw um, a lot
of creative people come in. Um, I I ran
into this business because when I was
sold my part of my business back to my
partners, I just didn't know what I
wanted to do. And a good friend of mine,
Jeff Gel, worked for DreamWorks and he
had said, "Hey, you know, we need
financing." I'm like, "Dreamworks need
financing?" So, you know, I I was like,
"I gotta like, you know, everybody." I
was like, "Yeah, it's funny. I was with
this guy CJ and maybe we should fly
out." So we flew out the next day and I
didn't want any money. I just wanted to
understand how the business worked. And
when I saw the structure because I've
been in structures, I'm like this is
wild. Let I can actually help people
here. Um over that time frame though,
what I noticed which was really bothered
me was um there was there's a there's a
there's a misnomer out there that
content is king. and and I and and I
used to be really annoyed by it because
um there's so many gatekeepers to what
that is. So I had a different line.
Content is king but distribution is
emperor.
>> So so what happened is as I watched this
process I was always thinking okay well
how do I help people that normally don't
get the access get access. That was
number one. I'm always about trying to
serve people. And then two, um, when I
saw that, I was coming up with different
funky ways of structuring things. How
could I bring brands in? How could I do
other ways? Um, tax credits. I went to a
one of the states and said, "I know
you're giving a tax credit. Why don't
you buy it back?" And people like,
"What? You're going to ask them to buy
it back?" I'm like, "Yeah, why not?" And
make they're giving out the security.
Who else would better buy it than them?
So then they would make money on their
own tax credit. So, um, I came up with
crazy things because why not? Um, and
then when I was in it, I also looked at
rights windows, right? So, Netflix used
to be a buyer of my gaming DVDs, excess
inventory. So, I just knew him as that.
I the gaming guys. Yeah. So, one day
they called and said, "Hey, we're going
to do a streaming." I'm like, I don't
even know what you're talking about, but
have fun. Right. Um, and in that process
though, two years later, I was working
with Roy Salter and they put together
financing for Netflix. But when they
were putting together financing, there
was a digital rights, there was
television rights, there was
international rights, and then there's
something called um
what is it? Non- theatrical rights,
which is basically a catch-all for
everything else. What what I found
intriguing was between digital and
television, Netflix created its own
window. So this is a business that's 100
years old. They created a window at
launch. I was like, "Wow." And I didn't
know what to do with it. I just knew it
was cool, right? So, um, fast forward to
when I was looking at this opportunity
is, uh, 2014, I started investing in
digital signage companies. I was sitting
at a board of a couple companies and I
realized a lot of people know hardware.
Some people know hardware, people know
software and people know content.
There's not many people that know all
three.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. And I would use other language
because I used the way I used to
describe that. Um, and what I saw was
these signage guys were tech guys and
they didn't or software guys. They had
no idea um about how to structure
financing or nor idea how to really
program it. And so when I said put
programming on, they would put more ads
on. And I'm like, that's not
programming. And I got to a point where
I got frustrated. And a buddy of mine
goes, "Dude, nobody knows it better than
you. Just do it."
So again, my writing, I write the
business plan. I went through a detailed
business plan, wrote it all up. Um, and
and side note, I write business plans on
every business I do. So, I know all the
things and I do the real work. I take
the entire template. I go through it.
>> Do you do you think people should do
that?
>> 100%. And but then we get to why?
>> Yep.
>> It's not for anybody else. It's for you.
I do the business plan for me. So, when
everybody else, because this is what's
going to happen as an entrepreneur,
they're say, "You're crazy. That's never
going to work. And then that you know
why you did a business plan. You can
listen to that and laugh because you
already know every single thing that
could happen. You're already you're
already ready for all that. I'm it's
like my my my Superman cape is on
because I've done the business plan.
I've done the research and I know the
work.
>> You can't tell me something I don't know
on that part of it. If you want to help
guide me, please, but to tell me I'm not
going to work,
>> you just don't know me.
>> So that that's why I do the business
plan. Um but you know launch and reach
what I saw was an opportunity to program
to look at an audience which I saw
travelers.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. They were all broken up and there
was nobody talking to the traveler
>> at scale connected and their only focus
was the traveler. A lot of things were
just being taken and put there but
nothing saying I want to talk to the
traveler and only the traveler. And it's
such a gap too because most people who
are traveling are pretty affluent%.
>> They're traveling for business. They can
afford vacation. You know, they can
afford to actually travel, right? So,
it's a higher tier of customer and buyer
that these advertisers would want to
reach.
>> Yeah.
>> Go backwards another step. I was in
retail, remember? I look I look at what
sold in real time all the time. I was
doing what what you're calling retail
media. I used to call co-op marketing
dollars. Every single deal I did had
co-op marketing dollars in it. So we
could take the marketing dollars and
drive put the product into the stores
and then help market and drive those
sales through those stores. When I look
at airports, I'm looking at billions of
dollars of transactions happening and no
one really talking to that customer in
real time. So imagine if you could come
in, build something and be able to talk
to that customer and change them from
Poland Springs to Smart Water.
How valuable is that? And that's what I
what our goal was to build and reach was
how do we build something for travelers
and overs serve travelers then help
overserve the concessionires that work
there help overserve the airports the
airlines and everyone in this ecosystem
because when an airport talks about what
they deliver they don't talk about the
airport they talk about the economic
impact that this airport has on this
entire area that they serve.
Something that I think is really
interesting is there's multiple
partnerships at play here because
there's content.
>> Yes.
>> The airlines
>> and then you have the airports
themselves.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. Three completely different things
>> and the concessionires inside those
airports.
>> And so it's like how do you go how did
you kind of go about building those
relationships and actually putting those
partnerships together? Um uh again
research on there realized that um the
top
of all this ecosystem
I've noticed that there was about 10
companies that control most of it if you
wanted to get to scale at the time CNN
airport was around it was in 55 airports
but I noticed the concessionires the one
that we went after first it was the
biggest one was in 68 airports so I was
like hm I can launch with a company that
could put me bigger than in more
airports than CNN if I land this deal.
So what we did was when we first
launched Reach, we took a it was a
in the airport there's a lot of
connectivity issues especially back in
2016 and 17. So we built something that
could and it was something I used back
in 2004 to do something for Budweiser
and Delaware so I could do it from my
desk and and make changes to the thing
and it was the only thing that worked. I
mean, side note on this, ego would have
made us not work. The ego play at that
time was stream everything, deliver it
uh in real time. That would have been
the ego play. And there was a company
that tried to do that before me and they
failed.
>> They bought TV rights and they did the
ego play of trying to stream it and it's
ridiculously expensive and it doesn't
make sense for this market.
>> So, what we did was deliver content that
sat on our we call it a puck. Sat on our
puck, right? which is a set box, but it
played back from there. So, we delivered
to there, then played back from there.
Why was that important? If you walked
through an airport, especially then, and
I'm friends with guys at Direct TV, so I
can say this. So many times, you'd see
screens that were just black and it said
Direct TV on it because they were
already disconnected.
>> We wanted to say our screens would never
be disconnected because the content is
playing from a stored device there. So
when we went to our meeting with HMS
host, I never had a we weren't
connected, but I already had stored it
on the box. So when we were sitting in
their office, I had a thing that had
their brand on it, content playing, and
it was we sat at a conference table,
three of us on our side, and 27 of them,
and I put a screen over here to my left,
and it was running our content. The
entire meeting, all 27 people were
looking over here. We knew we had them.
They weren't even looking at me because
they couldn't believe that there was
content running, not connected to the
internet, not connected to anything,
branded their things with really cool
things space focused on their network
and their restaurants and their places
that they were like, "How did you do
that?" I was like, "When when you sign
your deal, you'll see it all the time."
So, like we came in knowing we we had to
overserve. And then from a structure
standpoint, um the thing I did was
before as we launched was get the rights
window. Now, I don't mind sharing it now
because it's 10 years later, but we
created a new rights window to the right
of digital
>> just like Netflix, right?
>> Yes. I stole what Netflix did and put it
on the other side because I couldn't
afford their window and I didn't raise
that money that Netflix did. So, I was
able to get closed circuit rights, which
I said was about 1,000th of what digital
cost should be. Yeah.
>> And so, we went in and I remember I know
the studios. So, I went to all the
studios. I went with my law firm DLA
Piper and we decided that closed circuit
rights includes retail um airports
inflight hotels and with a window that
if you see it on our screen you can scan
and keep watching it and that wouldn't
infringe on your digital rights up to
like 10 days.
>> Now people would mark off some parts of
it but what I did was established a new
window
>> that people hadn't sold and then we went
to everybody and said let us buy this
rights window. So I started buying
content before I even had a network just
to exercise the rights window. And by
the time people realized what I was
doing, we were the leader in that rights
window because at the time I wasn't
going to beat YouTube, wasn't going to
beat Netflix and sure as hell wasn't
going to beat CBS, NBC, and everybody
else. But what I realiz is they were all
my partners.
>> Yeah. And the reason And I'm saying this
now is because they have content, but
what they don't have is distribution
where you have it.
>> Yes. Correct. And they and they won't
because when when the pandemic happened
and CNN went out, we acquired CNN
airport. So now we have both the gates,
the the bars, the restaurants, the so we
we own that infrastructure. And when I
say infrastructure, we put the fiber in
the we put the screens in the wiring.
We're like an old school cable company
where we got guys on ladders and you
know some of our pictures and that's
what it is.
>> What did that feel like buying CNN
airport? Uh, it felt like validation
and it felt like our team believes in
travel.
>> Did you buy them or were they for sale?
>> No, they were I tried to buy them uh a
couple different times and that a
different story, a different podcast,
but what happened was they decided and
now I know why. At the time we were
frustrated, but see the reason people do
things you don't know. They were selling
and they had to get rid of the gaset
because they that was one of the things
that the
>> CNN the whole company was selling.
>> Yeah. Remember they sold to Discovery.
>> That's right.
>> So in the same time this was going on,
they had to get rid of this asset over
here because it wasn't noncore. So they
needed to move these things on. I was
trying to buy it, but he was he had
another deadline because he was selling
something. So they closed it. So then it
was a January 5th and I I remember the
date because I was told well we're
closing it.
>> Yeah. You have 65 days to convince every
one of the airports to move to you and
you got to be live by March 31st because
everything else will be black. So I
didn't sleep for 65 days. We went to
every single airport authority,
convinced them, got agreements done and
we're live March 31st.
>> Wow.
>> Wow.
>> That's amazing.
>> So that is it. It feels like it now, but
it what I what I what I take from that
is our team believed during the
pandemic. We said, "What do we want to
be?" And we asked ourselves a serious
question. Do we believe in travel? And
do we believe in the traveler? And the
answer was emphatically yes. So
everything we did was how do we serve
him? How could we not buy that is the
better question.
>> Yeah.
>> That would mean we did not really
believe. So could you could you kind of
break down the business model for us
that way the viewers can understand is
so we purchase the content. We partner
with them. We can sell branded
advertisements with different brands,
products, services. And then there's the
airports. I'd love to kind of hear more
about like how that partnership works.
Like do they pay you? Do you pay to go
into the airports but you make the money
off of the brands? Like how does that
>> Yeah. I mean we we built the business to
be where we can service and and we pay
to have access to this but we want to
own the rest of our infrastructure. I
didn't want to be where somebody else is
telling me what I got to do every day.
So here's a check. We own this. We
service it. We'll do these things. We
have obligations to deliver. Our the
idea behind it was ad serving, right? To
launch to get through. Um but that's not
my only idea, right? So, you know, I've
always been in a um I always looked at
airports as this. It's an ecosystem
where traveler travel and tourism makes
up 10% of our GDP. It makes up 10% of
all the jobs in the US, right? So,
you're in this ecosystem. My Trojan
horse was getting the network up and
getting in.
>> Yeah.
>> But now you start looking at the data.
You start looking at where we are. Think
about and I have a theory that people
travelers
make up about 40 to 50% of our GDP if
you look at who the people are that are
traveling.
>> So how valuable are they? And then I go
back and say $1.8 billion dollar
a a month is being generated in the
walls inside these airports. What's more
valuable than that network? So we are
we're we're moving to where yes we have
ad supported but now we also produce
original content that now is getting
syndicated across our networks but also
could be on other retail media networks.
Now we're also looking at data and we're
doing analysization of telling you who
where people came from and that
marketing data is going we're telling
you how to book a restaurant in the
airport before you go and now we're
taking that whole journey around. So
when what are we building or where we
are now is a is a starting point. Where
we're going is being able to own that
traveler across all platforms. That's
not that's just not an ad. That's not an
airport network. That's a traveler
network that we get that we're building.
And that traveler is probably the most
significant person in our GDP of this
country
>> because everybody here had to travel to
get here. And so think about the people
that travel. Think about all the events
that happen. Traveler is the person and
and a and a traveler has a culture. It's
an entrepreneur culture. It's a creator
culture. It's a business culture. It's a
family culture. It's a culture of
connection. If I if I took all those
things and write it down, it's
connection culture.
And so, how do they connect? Is our how
do we find the things that people
connect on? Is it golf? Is it music? Is
it just vacation? Is it wellness? What
is it? But I think we're looking at it.
We're coming to a point where we have
the data. We have the first party data.
We've been collecting for 10 years,
paying for it, not even doing anything
with it, but setting it up and being
able to unveil that. It we are at a
place where what we are now in five
years is going to be something totally
different.
>> I want to talk about that. No, no, no,
no. Cuz literally what what I wanted to
ask cuz I don't think there's many
better people to ask this question to is
you have and you've obsessed over media,
right? And you've seen it just evolve
from a decade ago, two decades ago to
where it is now. What's the biggest
thing about the media business that's
really fascinated you over the last
decade or so, especially as you've gone
all in on, you know, Reach TV, which is
a which is a specific niche in media,
but just the media landscape as a whole.
what's really fascinated you and within
the next, you know, we'll call it five
to 10 years or one to two if you want to
go a little bit shorter, what do you
think?
>> I think I think media has this this
power and I think um it's why you guys
are so powerful in what you do and
that's why it's important to what you're
doing. I think that there's a there's a
funnel that they call full funnel
advertising, but I'm going to break it
down simpler. I think awareness to um to
performance in real time is coming. So
like I'm watching something with you. It
drives me to now want to do something
else in real time. It makes me want to
be a trader on Robin Hood. It makes me
want to go trade Bitcoin or it makes me
want to go and get a new shirt, right?
um these things are happening and if you
think about every single retailer right
now is rushing to get a chief content
officer. Why is that? It's because
they're seeing that just running a
consideration here's a product and
here's a QR here's a product and here's
it's in this aisle isn't enough. The
media part has to be on top of it for it
to be successful. You can't skip the
awareness part to go right to
consideration and performance. The
awareness part is the media and that
could be in a written form, that could
be um you know I got newsletters. That's
that's media, right? It could be a
podcast. It could be a a series. It
could be whatever. But when you look at
the top part of that, it's what makes
the emotional connection
so that the next two parts work. And the
part for me for for me is that's
evolving so much. Right? Podcast used to
be audio, now they're video, right?
Music videos, which I don't like. It's a
personal thing. I just I'm not a music
video guy. I because music to me is
extremely personal. So how can you make
a music video? You don't know what the
hell I'm thinking about. Like to me,
that's why I don't watch music videos. I
love music. I'm a maniac on music. But
in when I hear a song, there's a
personal video that's playing. I don't
want you to mess that up. So, I don't
watch music videos. That's my personal
opinion. It's a quirky thing, but it's
just my thing.
>> I get it.
Music is personal.
>> So, but like if you think about all
these mediums, it's really a way to get
us to connect and then through that
connection, you buy something. And I
think media is fascinating in that way
because it's changing, but we're not.
>> Right.
>> Right. Why why why do you think there
was such a big shift from traditional
media, legacy media to a lot more on
demand content and social media? Do you
think it's more so because like you like
just the ability to kind of democratize
and have your own platform and and I I
think it
I'll say it in a different way. If I was
sitting in that chair,
I'll say the good part. I'm gonna say
the first part that's that's probably
more controversial that some people who
know me well have heard me say it.
This could have been fixed very easily
by the big guys if they weren't so
stubborn. So you think about it, you
know how easy it would have been, and
I'll say this, I'll use an I'll use a
brand Comcast to make their cable box
streaming.
Just buy Netflix. you they would have
just been a channel. You can make your
all 30 million homes could have been
streaming. You know I know that because
I got a Comcast freaking internet box.
It's the same damn box.
The files box. It's the same box as my
internet. So they could have literally
cut this down and owned this quickly.
But what happened is they waited too
long and their ego was ah that's not
going to work. instead of really
investigating. And by the time they got
to it, Netflix had 130 million pe
subscribers,
right? And and so what happened was they
decided, I'm going to go, they didn't
even try to fix it then. You know what
they did then? We're going to buy up all
the broadband and make them buy it from
us again, playing a different game
instead of their own game. Again,
Netflix was happy. Like, we'll pay you
more. We'll complain. But they knew what
they really fear was what if HBO,
let's go backwards. What if HBO the day
that Netflix came out said we're going
to make I'll be set top box is going to
be streaming.
There's no Netflix.
That that simple. And and the reason I
say that, right, the reason I'm saying
all that is go look at your bill right
now. If you look at your bill from eight
years ago, yeah, you have all these
different selections, but you're paying
the same amount of money and it's a
I I like the cable experience that I
could turn on something and something's
playing. I do not like being a
programmer. So, streamers got to come up
with a way to stop making me be a damn
programmer.
>> I want to wake up at 1:00 in the
morning, turn on my TV, and have
something playing. I do not want to
become a damn programmer.
>> Yeah,
>> that's what they got me doing right now.
I'm a programmer. I never thought about
that is, you know, people used to spend
it was called 100 150 bucks a month for
cable and with HBO, Netflix, Hulu,
Prime, you got your Spotify, you know,
>> you're spending the same amount of
money.
>> Say this, the last thing, couple things
for Reach. Um, we've done something that
nobody else thought we could do. Five
years ago, we had an idea in our dream
sessions. Dream sessions was during a
pandemic. I was like, "What are we going
to do?" We talk about travel. We got
nobody traveling. So, what can we do?
Um, and I said, you know, let's have
some fun. So, we had guests come in and
speak and that was fun. And I think it
was Ryan Law. As he was talking about
it, he said, man, sometimes you could
dream about things and they really, you
know, just come come to life. It was it
was a innocent sentence. He's a good
friend and I was like, damn, I love that
sentence. Can I apply it? So, we applied
it. We started having dream sessions
which was everybody was allowed to come
on and the one thing you were not
allowed to do is talk about anything we
do right now.
>> If you talked about anything we do right
now you got muted. You you had to stay
but you just got muted. You couldn't
talk.
>> That's cool. I like that idea.
>> So we started dreaming about why can't
we do that? What about could we do this?
And one of them that came out was could
we be a live sports network because we
saw sports was going to be the driver
moving forward. Right? That's the one
thing that can't change for every tech
that may come out. Can't change sports.
>> So that was five years ago.
We we have now accomplished that we have
all we are live sports all year, all
time 10pole live sports. Um and I am
extremely proud of our team and our
everybody for that that transformation.
There's only one other company that did
it. Um, and I'm proud to say we didn't
spend their money, but uh, that was
Amazon.
>> So, there's two companies who have been
able to accomplish that. And the
contract we have with the NFL, we're the
only one, we're one of one that has
every single game, playoff game, and
Super Bowl for the last five and the
next five. So, um,
>> you know, I'm very proud of what we're
doing and in and and I don't know if I
told you guys or if you saw the
announcement, but I a friend of mine for
30 years went to high school with me,
was at the NBA, is now my CEO of the
company now.
>> I've moved to founder and executive
chair. Uh, I want to be able to spend
more time with people. Um, she's
amazing. She'll be able to take us to
another level, scale us up.
>> Hard knocks have reached TV soon.
>> Yes. All day. Yeah, exactly. We're
ready. Um I think uh reach for me has
been
a
I think I would say to you say everybody
is you just got to find a way right if
you'd have told me if somebody else
would have told you that 10 years ago
somebody's going to build a new vertical
you would say not going to happen
>> somebody said that 10 years before that
you're going to build a new vertical
they would say it's not going to happen
and both things happened Netflix came
out and changed the entire world on the
on the streaming and ava Svod Avod
things that never even were around.
>> Yeah.
>> And we in our way created our own window
that now if you look at our closed
circuit right window it's really the
retail media network window
>> and that's the fastest growing vertical
in advertising is retail media
>> and I'm going to tell you why it's not
the fastest grow. Let me just clear this
up. It's always been here. It was called
co-op marketing dollars, but now that
the money is coming from the agencies,
it's called retail media. The reason why
it's the fastest growing is because it's
co it's performance. It's at the end.
It's based on you selling through
something. Of course, it's going to win
and and the more you're selling, the
more money is going to come through it.
So, that's why I love travel.
>> That's why I love being in there. So, I
think there's going to be a
transformation
of, and I'm going to keep using this
word, of awareness to performance in
real time because of two things. One,
there's a POS system 5T from our
screens, but there's also one in your
phone.
>> So, I always got access to a wallet
either through a POS system or through
your phone in real time. Awareness to
performance in real time is a game
changer.
>> I love it. Li, we'd like to end these
podcasts off with two super quick last
questions. Rapid fire real quick. I'll
start and Jack will end us off here.
Okay, Lynwood, if me and you died
tomorrow, if we were all to pass away
tomorrow and you could leave one more
message with the younger generation,
what would that be?
>> Do it.
All of it, mistakes, everything. Just do
it with humility.
>> That's it. Love it.
>> I love it. And Lynwin, for the legacy
and the career that you've built, how do
you want to be remembered?
someone to help build other people up.
Uh I've I I have a lot of people that
are I put in a lot my tree is nice. I'm
really proud of that. And uh I'm proud
that I failed. I've won. Um and I I use
failure as I learned. I don't really
consider anything a failure. I don't I
don't even the worst things have
happened. Um I laugh now because I'm
like, "Oh my god, we learned this. We
did." It's like in those times you
really get into it. And I think people
need to the word I use all the time. The
thing I think I said it to you before
too is stop letting the word no bother
you.
No is just not yet. You haven't made the
compelling argument yet. You haven't
figured out the solution yet. It's not
no. Just don't worry about it. It's just
another word.
>> Yeah.
>> Just like yes. You get excited about yes
and you should get excited about no.
>> I love it. And and I'll give you the
I'll give you a quote on that. My
closing and this is all anybody who sold
Coco Knives knows this. My closing ratio
of Coco Knives is 93%.
>> That's insane.
>> Okay. The reason why I tell you that is
every time I got a no, I know I'm
getting 9.3 yeses in a row.
>> Yeah.
>> So I'm like, "Yes, thank you." And they
were like, "Why are you so excited?" I
said, "No." I said, "Good. I know I'm
going to go close the next nine in a
row."
>> Sometimes I work to get them to buy.
Yeah.
>> What do you mean? I'm like, "Well, 93%
of people I go to buy.
Oh, now they got to reconsider it. And
I'll give you something else, one piece
of advice. Nobody wants to be the first
and nobody wants to be the last. Take
that into when you're talking to people
about selling something. Nobody wants to
be the first and nobody wants to be the
last. Yo, you better jump on this. We
already got this going.
>> Yeah, that's good. That's good. Well,
this was an amazing conversation and a
great episode. Thank you so much for
being here, my friend. Be everybody
that's watching right now, be sure to
like and subscribe for amazing content,
amazing guest coming every week to the
Hard Knocks podcast. We're going to put
the links down in the description so
that way you guys can follow along with
Lynwood and his journey. He's got a book
coming out soon. Anything you want to
shed on that?
>> The the book, the internal voice. Um,
it's about the thing that drives you,
uh, the person you talk to the most,
yourself. So, how do you train that
internal voice to drive you where you
want to go?
>> When is it coming?
>> Uh, working on that.
>> We're working on it. Working on it. And
one last thing, guys, we're going to put
the link down in the description to join
the School of Mentors, the number one
entrepreneur community and network in
the entire world, where we host live
calls every week with the eight, nine,
and 10 figureure entrepreneurs that we
interview on the School of Hard Knock.
So, we can't wait to see you on the
inside. With that being said, we'll see
you in the next
