You're 15 years old. You had been beaten
by the police. My brother and I got
arrested for criminal trespassing. And
the police officers that arrested us,
they just said, "You feel like a
beatdown." They took us into the
basement and they just kicked us
repeatedly in our groins. We were
urinating blood for like 7 days. You're
the mayor of New York. How do you handle
the pressure of running a city with 8.5
million people? It is like every day
you're waking up and you're drinking out
of a fire hose. Growing up, you were
often on like the brink of homelessness
cuz you didn't know if you're going to
be evicted or not. I learned that simple
things matter. Just to have a house, a
home. It's not just four walls. How do
you go from being dyslexic to arrested
to rejected? And now I'm elected to be
the mayor of the most important city on
the globe. I never stopped believing in
myself. What would your last message to
the younger generation be?
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James. I'm here with Jack
and Josh and we have an incredible guest
for you guys today. We're out in New
York City with the man who is in charge
of running the most powerful city in the
entire world having to you know deal
with a hundred million or hundred
billion dollar budget $15 billion $15
billion budget u as well as being the
you know global financial capital in the
entire world. Mr. Mayor Adams, we're
very happy to be here today. Thank you
for being here. You know, I want to kind
of open things up today by going back to
a time in your life. You know, you're
you're 15 years old. You had been beaten
by the police. And rather than turning
your back on the system, you decided to
embrace it and kind of almost take that
pain and turn it into fuel and
ultimately, you know, become a member of
the system to change it ultimately. You
know, can you kind of talk to us about
your thought process and how do you
really process pain? Yeah. No, no. And I
love that. A matter of fact, I love the
name of your podcast, School of Hard
Knocks, you know, because I think it's
important. Uh, it was a it was an
interesting time in my life. I was 15.
Uh, I was struggling in school,
undiagnosed,
dyslexia, and I didn't know it. And you
I just felt like why was I going to
school? And I just decided to spend time
out of school. uh had a rough group of
friends that now that I think about it,
they may have also had learning
disabilities. And my brother and I got
arrested for criminal trespassing and
the police officers that arrested us uh
for it was no reason. We didn't run,
nothing like that. They were processing
the paperwork and they just said, "You
feel like a beatdown." They took us into
the basement and they just kicked us
repeatedly in our groins and I was uh
frustrated. We were ur urinating blood
for like seven days. And uh the feeling
was my spiritual leader, a man named
Reverend Herbert Dory. He talked me into
going into the police department. And it
was just such a moment of you have to
turn pain into purpose. I don't care who
you are. You know, my mother said that
if you're fortunate enough to live long
enough, you're going to experience pain.
How do you turn pain into purpose? And
that's what I did. You know, in order to
get the pain out of me, I had to go
inside the place where the pain came
from. And it was the best decision that
I made that he encouraged me to do. It
changed my life. It allowed me to serve.
And it also allowed me to fight for the
policing that I thought was needed in
our city. Growing up, you were often on
like the brink of of homelessness, even
carrying your clothes on on your back to
school or when you were going out
because you didn't know if you're going
to be evicted or not. What did that
environment teach you about ambition and
just being relentless? Yes. And they
used to call us the glad bag uh kids.
You know, that was the famous name for
the glad plastic bags. My mom would have
them lined up at the door and she would
have a change of underwear, a change of
socks, t-shirts, some slacks, cuz she
didn't want us to have a not to have a
change of clothing if the marshals came
to throw us out. And we carry that
around with us. And that housing
insecurity was scary. I used to turn the
corner and I used to feel these
butterflies in my stomach because I was
saying, you know, damn, Mr. Marshall's
going to be there. The sheriff's going
to be there. And it was such a relief
just turning the corner and not seeing
that truck. I remember a couple of times
you turn the corner and you see a truck
on the block or near the house and
you're thinking to yourself as you walk
into with your friends, you know what?
This is going to be embarrassing. you
know, uh, but I learned that simple
things matter just to have a house, you
know, a home. It's not just four walls.
And so when we had a housing plan that
we develop more housing in individual
years in the history of the city, I did
it because I thought about that Eric
Adams that was housing insecured and
those who are living in homeless
shelters, moving them from homeless
shelters into permanent housing. You
know, we brought broke records on that
because I brought that with me. I
remember what I felt like as a kid. But
it taught me resiliency. It taught me
compassion. It taught me don't ever look
down on someone based on their
circumstances. Reach down and bring them
up. And it just really fortified uh
those hard times on how I had to give
back to people in a real way. You were a
police officer for over 20 years. What
made you decide to get into public
service after your tenure as a police
officer? A a great question. uh is 11
year old child. I wish I could find that
young man now. 11 year old young man
arrested either two or three times in a
week for armed robbery. And I I used to
do midnight tours of duty from 12 at
night to to until 8 in the morning. And
I came in at the beginning of my tour
and he was standing at the desk being
processed and he knew every four-letter
word you can ever think about. He was
cursing everyone out. Uh they took him
inside a juvenile room where they
handcuffed him to a bar. I went in to
see him. He cursed me out. You know, he
would spit at me and call me names. You
know, you pig, you pig. And late in the
night around about 1:30, 2:00 a.m., I
went in and I brought him snacks from
the soda machine and I put it down and
came back to ask him did he need did he
need to go to the restroom? The snacks
he he ate the snacks and um then I sat
down next to him and I said, you know,
soldier, you've been you've been
arrested uh several times for um
robbery. what's going on? He broke down
and started crying. His dad was in jail
on a homicide bid. His mother was on
crack cocaine selling her body on the
street. He was out of school for months
and no one checked on him. He was 11
years old raising himself. And I
realized that I can't save him if I'm
just arresting him. I have to do
something else. And I always thought
about Archbishop Desmond Tutu's quote.
We spend a lifetime pulling people out
of the river. No one goes upstream and
prevent them from falling in the first
place. I had to go upstream and upstream
meant be the law maker, be the policy
maker. I ran for state senate, ran for b
president, county executive, and then I
ran to be the mayor of the city of New
York and now I'm doing upstream work
like dyslexia.
30 to 40% of the people who are in jail
in our country have a learning
disability like dyslexia. So now I'm
going upstream and I'm testing them from
for dyslexia so I could give them the
help they need and they won't go through
what I went through. And those are what
my policies are focused on. Before we
started the podcast, you mentioned that
your ability to do geometry does not
determine how successful you're going to
be in the real world, whether it's
business or just life in general. But
you said it's the ability to interact
with and actually get along with people.
It's all people in the business world.
They you know they say it's not what you
know, it's who you know. Yes. What what
are some things that you learned from,
you know, being a police on the streets,
having to interact with all walks of
life to now, you know, at the height of
your career, being the mayor of, you
know, the most prominent city in the
world? What have you learned about
interacting with people, how to sell
yourself to people and the best way to
go about navigating, you know, that
aspect of life? Yeah. And and you know,
here in New York, not only do you have
to get along with people, you have to
get along with people that's outside
your comfort zone. because I am uh
socially awkward. You know, I'm
extremely shy. I don't feel comfortable
around a lot of people. And so, not only
do I have to be around a lot of people,
but I have to be around a lot of people
with diversity. This city is
unbelievably diverse. You can walk into
an Indonesian restaurant and have a
Russian cook give you a recipe from his
Cuban mom. That's how diverse we are. I
mean, you got everything here. We have
the most of just about every population.
Most Russian speakers, most uh Spanish
speakers, most Chinese uh uh culture,
most most most African-American. You go
through the list, we're the most. And so
you must be willing to interact. And how
do you do that? By being a deep
listener. I'm a deep listener. I seek to
understand so I could be understood. And
I don't have to be right. And we learn
from everyone. I don't bring the
arrogancy. Hey, I'm the mayor. Uh,
you're a high school student or you are
a elementary student. I can't learn from
you. No, the universe is changing and
all of us have different places, ways
that we have observed that change in the
universe. So, it's no longer based on
how long you've been on earth is based
on the quality that you spent while
you're on earth. And you can get that
quality from anywhere. Like I can learn
from you how to be have a su successful
uh podcast. You know, I don't have a
successful one. So if I'm arrogant to
believe I can't learn from you, I'mma
fall short. And where we failed in our
country, we've our focus has always been
on young people on how do you become
academically intelligent instead of
emotionally intelligent. Uh emotional
intelligence would determine exactly
what you're going to become in life. You
know, your attitude is your altitude.
And if your attitude is a bad uh uh uh
uh atmosphere, no one wants to be around
you. No one is going to open doors. But
if you have that right attitude, people
want you to succeed. And that's what I
found in my career of you know, I'm not
pretentious. Uh I'm perfectly imperfect.
You know, you look in you look and watch
the dictionary and talk about the word
imperfection. You're going to see my
ballhead earring wearing self standing
there. I'm imperfect, but I'm dedicated
and that's all we have to do. And that's
I believe that's my key to success. But
it's safe to say our differences can
make us stronger. What is the I'm sorry.
Like it's safe to say that our
differences as individuals, as human
beings are ultimately going to make us
stronger. Without a doubt. Um, you know,
if I walk into my various communities
and that diversity, there's something
there's something in all those
communities. I remember I was down in
Alabama where my family is from and we
were trying to move some hay across our
barn. They we have across the yard. We
have a lot about 118 acres there and the
tractor broke down and I I hooked up the
motorcycle to the uh the wagon and I
drove it across and when I finished I
said I saw that in uh Thailand they use
something called tutts because they
don't have cars. That's how they move it
across. If you are trying to grow and
the persons that you are around look
like you, sound like you, talk like you,
eat the same food, listen to the same
music, you're never going to grow.
You're going to be in this little silo.
The if you want to be a global leader,
then the people around you must reflect
the globe. And that's here in this city.
So although we're a diverse city, people
still live in silos and they are missing
the greatest opportunities. and I am
outside the silos and I'm learning from
everyone. That diversity is our
strength. That is how we solve global
problems by having a global mindset.
Something I love about you, Mayor Adams,
is that you turned your pain into
purpose. At 15, you said that you were
beaten by police. Yes. And you decided,
look, I'm not going to try to change it
from the outside. I'm going to go inside
and make a change myself. And when you
went into the police force, one of your
goals was to fix police injustice and
reform it from the inside out. What was
that first story where you realized this
is why I signed up? Yes, I like that.
And you're right. It was about I wanted
us to be safe. Uh I saw what crime did
in our community. I love I lost some
good friends to violence and I wanted us
to be safe. It was a different time. It
was during a crack era. A lot of
violence was in the city. This was a
different city. Uh it was a place where
people were afraid. Parents used to put
their children through routines of if
you hear a gunshot sometime it could be
a car backfire. You know the duck. There
were drills that we were doing and so I
wanted us to be safe but also wanted to
fix and correct policing. I used to do
courses on what to do when stopped by
the police. There was a lot of
misunderstanding.
No one taught people uh probably the one
of the most important encounters you
could have is when you encounter a law
enforcement person. No one was teaching
uh young people in general but
specifically the city on how you're
supposed to react cuz both that police
officer is afraid and you may be afraid
because of the interaction. So we should
do classes on that. And the moment when
I realized, wow, this is the place for
me was when a parent came to me and told
me about some of the courses we did that
her young person, their son or daughter
was able to navigate an encounter or
interaction with a police officer. I
knew then that the work of being a
police officer, I was saving lives and I
was building a better symbiotic
relationship between the police and the
community.
You're the mayor of New York, biggest
city in the world. How do you handle the
pressure of running a city with 8.5
million people? 8.5 million people and
35 million opinions. Trust me when I
tell you it's full. Uh I cannot even
tell you and properly express I would do
it in injustice to express the amount of
income. It is like every day you're
waking up and you're drink drinking out
of a fire hose. It's so many places. But
when you look at that large volume of
water, how do you control a large volume
of water? You get a funnel. Then you
control as it come through. If you
attempt to manage it all without
controlling it, you'll be overwhelmed. I
control it. I know who what I must
delegate to my team. I know what I must
handle myself. And then I prioritize
that in my day. And then my day starts
early. I'm up, you know, normally 5:00
a.m. praying, meditating, exercising,
doing a green smoothie, reading my
papers, and then getting on with my day,
and it ends late. U I'm I'm a big person
to boost. New York is known for his
night life. Uh this is the city that
never sleeps, so I can't take a nap. I
have to be focused. It's a multi-billion
dollar industry, and I'm probably one of
the first mayors that really focused on
our nightlife industry. But I I know
what I must control and what I need the
team to control and that is how I get
through the day. So, how do you
prioritize like this is what I'm going
to go after today. This is what my
week's going to look like because like
you said, there's thousands of things
that are going on at the same time,
right? At all times of day, what is your
prioritization process kind of that
looks like that determines what you're
going to ultimately go after? And that's
a great question. Uh public safety is
first. if it's something that's dealing
with public safety that my police
commissioner needs me to look in or make
a big decision because there's a lot of
things happening with public safety now
particularly with some of the dangerous
Venezuelan gangs some of the terrorist
threat that we're facing the large
number of protests we're seeing in the
city there's a lot of things that are
happening in the city so I I I make sure
that it's managed are we doing
everything we're supposed to do and then
I look at uh how do we move the city
forward in the areas of housing housing
employment. I look and see what we need
to do with that. And then I have to deal
with my international guests because
this is an international city. The UN is
here and there are many international
leaders that come here that want to sit
down and speak with me about what's
happening in their countries because
often it impacts what happens here. So
it's a combination. But every day uh you
are waking up to something new. That
goes back to your question about uh
policing because you could start your
day as a police officer and you could go
somewhere with there's a missing child
and then you'll handle that and an hour
later you're dealing with a homicide. An
hour later you're dealing with someone
that committed suicide or a plane
crashing on the Hudson. So in one day
you could have all of these experiences
but you learn over time your mental
muscle allows you over time to manage
all of those things. So by the time I
became mayor not only did I have to
manage all those things but I was the
captain that had to supervise those who
had to manage all those things. And so
now when I walk into city hall and all
the things that are going on is my
muscle memory is already in place. just
manage as it comes and you build these
systems internally that prepared you for
this job as a mayor. Not only are you
managing millions of people, but you're
also managing millions of opinions. And
one of the things that you have to do is
you have to make tough decisions. And
not every decision you will make is
going to be able to please everybody.
And so when you have, you know, a tough
decision to make, whether that's about
budget cuts or immigration,
what goes into your thought process and
what kind of goes into your mind when
making those decisions? That you are so
right? I mean, um, like I said, 8.5
million people, 35 million opinions, and
you have to make unpopular decisions.
And if you're going to base it by doing
a Gallup poll to see where the opinions
are, you're never going to make the
right decision. You have to do it from
your heart. You have to be sincere and
you have to do it from a good place. And
I always reflect on an exercise that I
say to myself as a Christian. What would
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John do? You
know, how would they handle this? Uh how
would they handle homelessness? How
would they handle if someone is a victim
of a crime? How would they handle if
someone is unemployed? I try to come
from a Christian foundation and my
beliefs and my faith is strong and is
real. And I think from that place, you
don't look back and regret. You're not
going to get it all right. I'm telling
you, there are days that I just said,
"Damn, I wish I would have stayed in
bed." And there are days I said, "I wish
I would have gotten up earlier." So,
they're good days, they're bad days. You
don't get it right. And don't expect to
get it right. I don't want to bat 400. I
want I want to be able to bat um a good
300 with men on base, then I'm happy.
You know, if you're batting 300, you're
in the Hall of Fame.
you know, mo we talked about this a
little bit before we we hopped on the
podcast. And you know, most school
systems, especially in in in America,
don't don't teach things such as
financial literacy, entrepreneurship,
success habits, how to how to work with
your money in the real world, how to
interact with people. But something that
you enacted recently in New York City
was that you want your schools to teach
things like that. What was your thought
process implementing that? And where do
you kind of see the impact of that going
for the younger generation? Because
that's something that we want to do with
our channel. And I'm really happy to see
that in the school. So, I'm interested
to hear what was your decision to enact
that and and kind of what are the plans
for it? And that's good stuff because of
you look at what would impact your life,
you know, as I do look in my rearview
mirror. Uh health,
f finance and romance.
Those would be the three major impacts
to your life. And the beauty is if you
take care the uh the finance and your
health, your romance is going to fall in
place, you know. But financial literacy,
no one was teaching that. My credit
score when I graduated from high school
and college, my credit score was
terrible. And it's because I lived
through the credit card syndrome and I
was wearing my wealth. And if your
wealth is in your body and not in your
bank, then you're not really preparing
yourself for the future. If you make the
right decisions young, you could enjoy
the discretionary spending later. And I
was focused on that uh to turn around my
credit score. I was able to do so. But
far too many people go throughout their
lives with terrible credit scores. And
you're paying more for everything
because of your credit score. And I
wanted to show um my my students uh how
to invest, how to spend money, how to
understand interest rates, uh how to
understand um how to save for buying a
home, how to save for college. And we
wanted to do that. Then look into the
new currency, cryptocurrency, bitcoins,
uh I want them to understand cyber
wallets, digital assets, so they can be
prepared how to manage their money. that
that was very important to me and it was
not being taught. We were we were too
focused throughout the years of just
dealing with academics and you guys know
your your podcast is successful not
because you was good you were good in
geometry.
You are good in how they interact with
people and that is where we must
understand. I rather my son when he
graduated from American University, I
always told Jordan, um, yes, get your
good grades, you know, but also be a
good person that people love when you
walk in the room and not share when you
walk out. And every dollar in the world
flows through New York City and you're
overseeing a lot of that, the business
that's going on. One thing that was
fascinating you mentioned is that you
took your first three paychecks in
Bitcoin payments. Yes. Yes. Yes. What
have you learned about the psychology of
money? Well, um, it's not how much you
have. It's about common sense and not
dollars and cents because you could have
all the money you want. But if that
money you're not happy, then you are not
going to enjoy it. So the goal is
wherever you are financially to find
peace within yourself because trust me
you look at a burn um uh the B burn B
burn B burn B burn B burn B burn B burn
B burn B burn B burn B burn Bernie Maid
off all the money he had he was still
hurting people you have millionaires and
billionaires who commit suicide because
they're in dark places and they're not
happy but if you learn no matter what
you have to be at a place where you're
happy and that's why meditation is
important that's why breathing exercises
uh are important important. Uh that is
why taking moments of reflection and
being around family because as you move
up and become more and more economically
uh affluent, you should bring with you
the attention you play you play you pay
on making sure your bank account is
strong. You have to uh have that same
attention to making sure your body is
strong. When I say your body, I'm not
only talking about your physical body,
but the anatomy of your spirit that
needs to be healthy also. Because if you
don't have a holistic approach to life,
um, exercise, eat right, take care of
your body, meditate, pray, uh,
reflection to take care of your mind,
and then take care your economics. It
all has to go together. If you don't
have that trilogy, then you're never
going to real live the full life that
you want to. And if I'm correct, you
like avoided being diabetic. Yes. And
you went completely vegan. Yes. I went I
like to call it plant-based, you know.
Um um the most the bulk of my diet is
plant-based. I woke up and I couldn't
see the alarm clock. I thought it was
sleep in my eyes. Uh and I went to the
doctor as you're going to find. You
know, men, you got to drag to the
doctor. We just suck up the pain all the
time. And when I got to the doctor, I
thought I had I was having a pain in my
stomach. I thought it was um colon
cancer because a friend just died at
that time for colon cancer. And when
they checked my colon in my stomach, I
had a small ulcer. But he said, "Your
real problem is your diabetes. Your
diabetes is out of control. You're going
to lose your sight in a year." Uh this
was this was many years ago. He said,
"You're going to lose some fingers and
toes." I was having tingling in my
fingers and toes. Diabetes is the number
one cause of blindness, number one cause
of non trauma limb amputation, just a
whole host of things. My whole body was
breaking down. and I looked fine, but I
needed to take an internal selfie. And u
I went and I learned from this doctor,
Dr. Esther and some other doctors that
it was about my food. And I when I
changed my diet and went to a
plant-based diet, my vision came back,
my nerve damage went away, the ulta went
away, and I learned, you know, people
tell you that, you know, if your parents
have these uh diseases that you are
going to have the disease. It's in your
DNA. It was never my DNA. It was my
dinner and I changed my dinner and I
changed my destiny.
Your your life story is front and center
on your leadership style. You don't shy
away from your humble beginnings, but
instead you embrace it and use that to
inspire others. Why do you think that's
so important for leaders to embrace by
or to inspire by example and really lead
with their full story and really just
embrace that? Yeah. No, it's so
important. Uh what I found in government
that I dislike is that we try to pretend
we are not who we are. And and I just
didn't want to do that. You know,
sometimes I'll be out somewhere and I'll
be smoking a cigar and drinking a glass
of cognac and they said, "Well, you
can't take a picture with that." I said,
"Why? I smoke cigars and I drink
cognac." You know, if you don't hide who
you are, you don't have to worry about
someone looking over your shoulders. I
am who I am and I'm authentic about
that. And people who are going to like
you are going to like you based on who
you are and not based on who you pretend
to be. Because when you pretend to be
something and then you expose now you
have to go back and question it. And so
someone writes a story and say, "Hey,
the guy drink cognac." I'm going to say,
"Yes, I drink cognac." "Hey, the guy
smoke cigars." "Yes, I smoke cigars."
You know, this is who I am. You don't
have to sneak around. I'm going to tell
you and I'm going to be transparent on
who I am. Now, do everyone likes it? No,
they don't. You know, but like I said
before, um people who don't like you
also don't like themselves. So why are
you worried about people don't like
themselves if they like you or not? I
like me. That's the most important
thing. And my story says to others,
where you are is not who you are. When
if you're sitting in class right now
struggling because you can't learn
because you have a learning disability,
you can now say, "Wait, my mayor has a
learning disability." If you are in a
homeless shelter, you can say, "Wait a
minute. My mayor lived on the verge of
homelessness." If you had a negative
encounter with police and got arrested
and you're sitting behind some jail
cells somewhere, say, "Wait a minute. My
mayor was in jail." So, a bend in the
road is not the end of the road. You
just got to make the turn. And I'm
hoping when people see me, they say,
"Wait a minute. This guy is not perfect.
If he can go from where he was to where
he is now, then I can do that." And
that's what I'm hoping people get the
most out of my role as mayor, that you
don't have to be per perfect to be
prosperous. What would you say over the
tenure of whether it was in the police
force and then taking public office,
becoming mayor, the biggest city in the
world, what would you say is your best
leadership advice, especially when it
comes to delegation? Like we talked
about that a little bit earlier, how to
delegate and things like that. How would
you give that to other young leaders
that are coming up? Maybe they're
starting companies. Maybe they're in
public office in today's world. Yeah.
You know, generals don't send their
troops into battle and ask, "How was the
war?" Generals lead their troops into
battle. I'mma lead my troop troops into
battle. You know, before I'm going to
ask them to do something, I want them to
see that I'm going to do it. I'm going
to pick up the broom and sweep up the
garbage that's left on the street. I'm
going to go in the subway system and
talk to people who are homeless to see
how challenging it is to talk them out.
I'm going to respond to that shooting to
look at the crime scene tape and hear
the whailing voices of those who are the
victims. I want to personalize and feel
it so when I make policies or I send my
troops into battle, I know what I'm
sending them into. And that is what I
would say uh to young people who are
moving into these leadership positions.
lead your troops into battle. Lead them
into battle and be willing to be on the
front line. And those are the words of
great generals. I think about one of my
favorite uh movies, both Brave
Braveheart and Gladiators. There's a
scene in Gladiator when he talks to his
men and says, "Some you're not going to
come home." But he was the first one
that was riding that horse into battle.
And that's what we need nowadays. You
know, too many people are armchair
generals and they don't have any soil on
their uniform because they only bring it
out for parades. When I'm finished with
my role, I'mma have a lot of kinks and
holes and scratches in my armor because
I was on the field of battle. I fought
like hell and I'mma be proud to put it
up and hang it up and said, "I led my
troops into battle." I asked you about
it earlier when we were outside about,
you know, you're not afraid to work with
both sides to get things done, but when
you look at the general public's
consensus of like a concern that they
have with a lot of public officials is
that they don't get things done, you
know, especially at the federal level,
and a lot of it's because they want to
be very partisan and not work with the
other side. Why have you kind of
embraced, you know, letting our
differences kind of to the side of like
let's work to get things done and how
have you been able to make that happen?
Because um I can sum that up in uh Joe
uh 19 years old. He was my uncle. He
died in Vietnam at 19 defending the
country. He didn't agree with everything
in the country. If you go back during
that time, it was a difficult time
particularly for African-Americans. But
when he put on that uniform, he only
knew one thing. The American flag, it's
the symbol that's important. And so I'm
true blue Democrat, but I'm true blue,
blue collar, and I'm true red, white,
and blue. And every time a president
comes in office, it doesn't matter to me
what party he's in. Once he's elected to
office, he's represented the symbol of
our strength. If you desecrate that
symbol just because it wasn't the person
you voted for, then you don't really
love America. You love yourself. I love
America and I'm unapologetic about that.
No one is lining the borders to leave
our country. They're lining the borders
to come into our country. We have the
best product going. No place like this
country. And I believe clearly that no
matter what happens, uh I can
resuscitate the words over and over
again. The rocket red glare gave proof
through the night that our flag was
still there. And we went we've gone
through some stuff. You know, the those
bombs may burst in the air. The bombs
may be the bombs of depression, the
bombs of COVID, the bombs of race rise,
the bombs of of uncertainty, but when
it's all said and done, that flag is
still here. Greatest country on the
globe. And that is why to me, I need to
reach across the aisle. I need to reach
in the same aisle. We need to do
everything possible to do what's best
for workingclass people in this city and
working-class people in the country
because I feel the way goes New York
goes America. If I get it right here,
we're going to get it right across the
globe. I love it. And we end these off
with two super last quick questions. And
in one sentence, what would your last
message to the younger generation be?
One more guiding principle for the
younger generation. Be you. You know,
you're going to find out throughout your
journey, people are going to try to
shape and mold you into who they want
you to be. They're going to attempt to
tell you what you can do or can't do.
Listen to the advice, but you make the
ultimate decision. Be you and reach for
the sky. You know, I know that's a
metaphor that's used often, but just,
you know, you just have to really soak
into a young man on the verge of
homelessness
with dyslexia, went through some hard
times. How do you go from being dyslexic
to arrested to rejected? And now I'm
elected to be the mayor of the most
important city on the globe. I never
stopped believing in myself. Mother gave
me something when I came home from being
arrested. She gave me a sign that said
impossible. And she said, "Baby, I want
you to say the first letter first." And
I said, "I." And said, "Then you say
this next letter." I said, "M." She
said, "Now say the word possible. I am
possible." I never forgot that. And I
want to sell tell them put that
impossible on their screen.
Impossibility is for other people but I
want them to say I am possible. Our last
question for you. If it was all said and
done tomorrow, how do you want to be
remembered? Uh as a person that was
compassionate, caring, and committed.
And that he never quits no matter what
happens.
Never quit. Never give up. Always fight
on. I want that on my tombstone. He
never quits.
You got amazing advice. This this was a
beautiful episode. Everybody watching,
be sure to like and subscribe for
amazing content every week because we're
going all over the world to bring you
the most successful and the people just
like the mayor of New York City, Eric
Adams. We're going to put all the links
to your social channels below for
everybody to follow you. Any other thing
that they should know about coming up?
Any elections? Anything that's that's
happening? No, we have a we have a a
election coming on. Um we're excited
about that. But um I tell people all the
time I look forward to reelection. Uh
but I'm not going to judge myself on
winning or losing. I'm judging myself on
what God plans are. As I said to you, uh
I'm just telling young people, turn in
your GPS, your God position to
satellite. Let go and let God. I love
that. Let go and let God. Well, we
appreciate you everybody. We'll see you
guys in the next