If you're waiting for the move to be
obvious, you're 100% late. You aren'tthe hunter, you're the exit liquidity.
The easy money has already been made.Anyone can tell you a stock is strong
[music] when it's up 100%. But there's away to tell a stock is strong before it
makes its move. We call it hiddenrelative strength. This is the quiet
accumulation that happens [music] whilethe rest of the market is looking the
other way. It's not sexy. It won't makeyour ex feed, but it [music] works.
We're going to discuss how we spothidden relative strength, how we measure
it, and how we [music] use it toanticipate breakouts. It's time to
become an expert on spotting hidden[music] relative strength. Welcome to
the Trading Floor podcast, episode 9.I'm Tim Beldin, joined as always with
Garrett Dryen and our guy Kurt behindthe curtain.
So Garrett, when we're saying hiddenrelative strength, what do we mean?
So when a lot of people talk aboutstrength, they're talking about a really
strong stock. And relative strengthobviously is comparing one stock to
another or one stock to the market,right? Everyone knows that. But I think
that a lot of times when we talk aboutrelative strength, the thing that stands
out to us is the strength part, right?So something that has tremendous
relative strength is like some stockthat's just running. It's the strongest
stock in the market. It's super obvious.But there are other kinds of relative
strength that are more subtle, but likein our case, and you'd probably agree
with this, Tim, like more powerfulbecause there's a way to use it to our
advantage. Now, a stock that's up, youknow, 10% today, obviously, it's
probably going to have some prettyserious relative strength, but it's like
the cat's out of the bag, right? So,yeah. So, so what is this this hidden
relative strength that we're talkingabout that is a little more subtle? You
you can measure it. You can easilymeasure it, but it's different than just
something that's just ridiculouslystrong.
>> And what you're getting at, it'sactionable. Like it's something where
you find hidden relative strength andthat could lead to trades and you don't
want to be looking at it every singleday. So, like you said, relative
strength, we compare the strength of astock to the indices to the market. And
for hidden relative strength, we reallywant to be looking at it when the market
is having down days. When the market isweak, what's standing out and holding up
the best? And that's what gets usexcited.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, it's it's a stockthat isn't going down when the market's
going down. So, if we're going tocompare it to the overall market,
because that's a really great proxy tosay, you know, is our stock stronger or
weaker than the market, we can compareit to SPY or Q's or maybe it's it's ETF,
it's sector ETF, you know, there'sdifferent things we can do there. Um,
but we might it might be as simple aswe're watching our stock, right? And and
we we use this for breakouts, right?Mostly, Tim, like we're we're teeing up
a breakout. We're trying to take thetemperature of the stock. We want to get
the feel for is it ready, right? It'strading in the range. It's maybe testing
the breakout level. Maybe it's it'sgetting close. It's getting tight. Like
there's various reasons why we'rewatching it a lot closer now. And we
we're really trying to like time thisthing. And and like the last episode
when we talked about the pink line,there are certain things we do below
that breakout level where we mightanticipate that breakout level or we
might wait for that break, right? Andone of those things that might get us to
anticipate is relative strength.>> Would you like to gain the biggest edge
a retail trader can get? All of ourdaily and weekly in-house trader
meetings are now available to you. Justhead over to smbtradingfloor.com
to find out more.>> And it's really that hidden relative
strength. So it might be as simple. Soto me, a lot of the times it's just
watching the market. Like there's waysto measure this and we'll like I want to
actually get into that Tim because Ibrought a couple slides of of a of an
indicator that I created that I like toto use to measure this especially on the
quant side. Um>> let's go.
>> Butso but it's usually as simple as like
I'm I'm just watching the stock>> and you notice that the market ticks
down, right? you're watching the spy atthe same time as your stock and maybe
there's a downdraft in the market andyou're watching your stock and maybe it
doesn't go down as hard, right? Maybethere's some bids there, maybe it holds,
maybe it doesn't go down at all. Andthat's just a little instance within
that day that it demonstrated somerelative strength, some resilience,
something that like something's there,there's a bid there, there's something
there that that shows some buying,right? without it kind of having to go
up 10% before you realize that. Right?So, you're collecting these little data
points as the market drops and your yourstock holds. The market drops, your
stock holds, right? Maybe the marketrallies a little and yours goes more.
Maybe the market starts to consolidateand the stock, you know, keeps going a
little bit higher. There are theselittle moments that are qualitative that
we can see when we're watching the tape.So simply put, it's like the Q's are
down 2% on the day. What is green?What's positive on the day? Or if the
market's down 2 to 3%, what's only downlike 0.25%.
And I think what's interesting, you'resaying the underlying bid. What I find
so interesting with hidden relativestrength is that there is a fundamental
driver behind it where the strongeststocks usually they make the biggest
most explosive moves because they haveinstitutional buying behind it. And we
know these are huge funds, huge firmswhere they can't execute everything in a
day. Like if they want to buy Tesla orSNDK, you can't do it in one single day.
So on those down market days, you'regetting that big money still adding to
their positions via a TWAP. And that'skind of uh the dynamic that is that
underlying bid that we're talking about,>> right? It's it's like the footprints of
those those institutions and it's thereally the market showing you its hand,
>> right? The market having those downmoves gives you an opportunity to see
which stocks have bids in them. Andthat's why like our team leader K Fitz
like he's he's a great swing trader.He's always talking about like every
time we get a weak day in the market oreven just like a weak period in the
market that's like that's his time tostart collecting his list of strong
stocks, right? It's not after they'veall gone up 10%. It's when the market's
going down and he's just looking andjust adding stocks, adding stocks like
this stock, this stock, and and by bythe time the pullback is over in the
market, he has this list of relativelystrong stocks. And it's typically once
that market turns, those are the stocksthat are going to explode. And that's
those are the stocks that he ends upswinging trading like on the way back
up, which is I mean that's like hiswhole strategy.
>> Yeah. And he's he's made a lot of moneydoing it,
>> which we do. We do that as well.>> Yes.
>> Yeah.>> So, the blueprint you're saying is when
the market is down, he'll send the textin. We already know to do it. But when
the market is down, look at what'sholding up the best. Like, simply put,
that's the best way to start going aboutfinding hidden relative strength in
stocks.>> Yeah. So, I like to me there's like two
ways to use this. Like one, you'rescanning for stocks. So you're trying to
create a list of stocks that are showingrelative strength, right? That's kind of
like you can keep your like relativestrength list and now you know these are
stocks when the market gets strong mightoutperform, right? They might set up and
these are the stocks you want to bewatching. So that's kind of like a a
scanning way to go about this. The theother way is like you've got a stock
that's setting up and this is kind of>> you're already watching it.
>> Yeah. And this is kind of like where Iwas um thinking like going into this.
Like we didn't talk a lot about thisthis uh this episode, but that's kind of
where my head was at because you'reright, you can use it to scan the
stocks. Where my head was at was you'rewatching a stock for a breakout and
you're trying to figure out when it'sready, right? Because we're always like,
you know, there can be failed breakouts.It can be too early. you don't want to
anticipate if it's not going to go andyou know you want to wait for the pink
line you know regarding last episode andall those things and so you're trying to
time it and there's something aboutwhen you're watching for a breakout that
like in the beginning of theconsolidation a lot of the times the
stock's underperforming like it mightyou know it's pulling back it's resting
after a big move um there's somevolatility there and then it's and it
starts to go sideways and at some pointit starts showing some relative strength
before it breaks out. And I would saythat like I mean 90% of the time when I
go back and like look at my indicatorand just kind of review like a lot of
times we're computing this likequalitatively as we look at the market.
But if you go back and and look at this,I mean 90% of the breakouts that are
really good that we trade like theystart to show that relative strength
before the breakout in these reallysubtle ways. And so that's like one of
my favorite ways to start teeing up abreakout is because you start to see
that. And I I remember distinctlyum I think it was like the Tesla 360
breakout last year. It consolidated forweeks um off that April low. It came off
and then and then consolidated higherand then broke out like I think it was
through 360. And it was like the fewdays leading up to the breakout it was
just obvious relative strength. And Iactually brought a slide.
>> So,>> let's look at it.
>> Yeah, Kurt, if you could please bring upthe uh the Tesla slide. I think it's
number number two.>> And Tesla's our favorite in terms of
like I don't remember a Tesla breakoutthat didn't show relative strength right
before it broke out. Like that's asignature for Tesla breakouts.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and so this is so Teslais on the left and the Q's are on the
right. So that I'm just comparing Teslato the Q's. And that line on the bottom
of the Tesla chart is the relativestrength line. Now Tim, you know,
sometimes I like to do thingsdifferently. A lot of times, like most
most of the times when people want toquantify relative strength, I think like
the traditional way to do it is like a aratio chart where you're kind of like
dividingum like one stock by the other and and
you're you're plotting that line, right?and the the movement of that line shows
the relationship between those those twostocks. And that works great when you're
comparing two very similar um types ofequities with similar volatility and
stuff like that. And I I think as in abroad stroke kind of way like that's
that's a great way to do it. Um for melike the issue with that is that it
doesn't really normalize for volatility.So what if you have a stock that moves a
lot more and you're trying to compare itto something that doesn't move nearly as
much. So like for instance, if Teslamoves a lot more than the market, so te
the market's up 2%, Tesla's up 4%.Market's down 1%, Tesla's down 2%.
Right? It's just Tesla's doing the samething as the market. It's just more
volatile, right? In a situation likethat, a lot of these traditional
relative strength lines are going to endup just looking like the chart of Tesla,
like a like a sort of subdued chart ofTesla because Tesla's going to dominate
because it has more volatility than theum than the instrument that you're
comparing it to. So, what I like to dois normalize for volatility. And this
this is an indicator that that we sharein in the Bionic Trader meetings.
>> Do you want to sit in on all of ourdaily and weekly in-house trader
meetings? There's no bigger edge retailtraders can get. Visit
smbtradingfloor.comto learn more.
>> Just really quickly, Tim, explain likehow we compute it so that like people at
home can do it and understand it. Um,>> yeah.
>> And definitely, you know, basicallyyou're like I'm taking each bar
>> which think of each bar as a move in thestock, right? You're going from like the
previous close to the close. And thiscould be on any time frame. It's just
the calculation on whatever time frameyou're on. Every bar is a move in the
stock. And so for every move in thestock, you're taking that move and
you're dividing it by the ATR, which isthe average true range. So there's a
rolling calculation of an average truerange, which is the volatility of the
stock. And you're taking that move andyou're dividing it by the ATR. And then
you take the next move and you'redividing it by the ATR. And so now you
have a chart of these ATR moves andyou're accumulating those. And so as the
volatility is changing, the uh the movesare adjusting to that volatility and
you're basically getting an ATR adjustedcumulative return of the stock, right?
And so you do that for Tesla and thenyou do that for the Q's. You take Tesla
minus the Q's. So you just subtract thebenchmark from your stock. And
>> so just to stop you real quick, you'renormalizing using the average true
range.>> Exactly. That's that's the big
difference. So like you're you're takingtwo separate lines and then you're
subtracting one for the other. Each lineis a normalized like ATR return of the
stock.>> Yes.
>> During the same time period and so thatway um you're basically saying like for
Tesla's volatilityTesla has performed this way and for the
Q's volatility the Q's have performedthis way. So we've now taken the
volatility out of it now based on howthey normally move, which one's
outperforming,>> right? And so
>> yeah, it's so interesting.>> And so like if if say Tesla typically
always just does double the percent moveas as the Q's.
>> I'm just making that up.>> So now if the Q's go up 2% and Tesla
goes up 4%.That on the relative strength line,
that's going to be like they did thesame thing.
>> And that's that's what that's doing. Andthen so you're saying doing the same
thing. It'll be a flat like Yeah. It'lljust be flat.
>> Yeah. Like they both they both did thesame thing. So that's what the line is
down at the bottom. And so that'splotting the relative strength of Tesla
compared to the Q's. And you can you cansee it pretty clearly because you see
that day one, this is over the course ofthree days. And you can see those
vertical lines on the chart aresplitting Tesla and the cues up into
three days. And you can see on day onehow Tesla rallied in the morning,
flatlined in the afternoon, and thenkind of sold off into the close. Kind of
closed where it started. And you can seethat the Q's actually kind of sold off
all afternoon>> and and much deeper
>> and and rallied into the close a littlebit, right? Which is so when when the
Q's rally into the close, you can seethat relative strength line in Tesla dip
because now all of a sudden just intothe close, the Q's are outperforming.
So, but you can see as a whole Teslaheld up much better than the Q's and you
can see that in the chart and you cansee it on the relative strength line.
And so, what's so interesting about thisis that we weren't looking at this line
when we were making this trade. We werejust watching the tape and comparing
like I started out saying, just noticingthe moves in the market compared to
Tesla. And on day two, Tesla was justnoticeably stronger than the market. And
this is the day that it came up to andtested the breakout level, which is that
pink line. So strong off the open andthey were both kind of strong but Tesla
was stronger and especially in thatafternoon move where Tesla had some
follow through the market didn't evenmove and that relative strength lines
making new highs and so that's just liketo show how this line works. Um, but
when we're trading this, we're thinking,man, like Tesla's over the course of the
last two days has shown so muchconsistent relative strength that this
really could be ready to break out.>> It's cool seeing the relative relativity
line because we've used this in ourmodels in the past. Uh, but it's cool
seeing it. Just to mention too, if youdon't have the relativity line, like one
way of also just qualitatively lookingat it is Tesla's able to take out its
morning high um in the afternoon whenQ's never did. That's another small
little tidbit you can use.>> Yeah,
>> like you were just saying.>> Absolutely. Right. And those are those
those are those qualitative things thatwe're mostly using. Like we're not
really looking at this line too often.So,
>> and you could even look at just ATRs upas well as other ways to measure hidden
relative strength,>> right? Like ATRs up on the day.
>> Yeah.>> Yep. Yeah. Absolutely.
>> So, what's so interesting though withthis? So, I I I'm seeing it on the
chart. It's pretty cool to see. And thenI'm seeing that at the end of day two,
day two is where all the magic happenshere. That relativity line starts to
really jump. And if you're like atechnical trader just trading the
relativity, it breaks out then.>> Yeah, it starts to break out and then
some of that's I think the continuationinto the the actual.
>> Oh, okay. I see where it>> it's like half and half. Yeah,
>> it's hard to see where>> it gets a perk at the end.
>> It's hard to see where it cuts off, butyes, it does.
it makes new highs into into the closebecause the Q's had a pretty
>> I think a you know pretty big down moveespecially um I can't see I can't see if
that's at the close or at the open butbut yeah basically you want to just see
your stock outperforming right and and Iwant to show a example of SNDK which is
that recent breakout on a daily chartbecause that's really where it's
interesting to look at like this waskind of fun to see because the reason I
grabbed this example Tim was because Ijust remember trading this and I
remember talking about the relativestrength in Tesla and how that was
getting us to get involved in the tradeanticipating this breakout. Um just just
noticing it like we weren't looking atthe at the indicator but I wanted to
kind of pull kind of go back and look atthe indicator and and review this
because do you remember talking aboutthis?
>> Oh I remember with the Tesla one. Areyou talking Tesla still?
>> Yeah.>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It was literally that on that daytwo we got involved on that day two
because of the relative strength andthis just to now bring everything back
to the pink line. Last episode we weretalking about what are some times when
we'll break that rule and it's perfectlyvalidated. That was one of them and we
broke that rule.>> Right. All right. So Tim SNDK this this
was the breakout that occurred earlierthis month. This was after after a big
run. um one of the strongest stocks inthe market, but it paused and it it took
a break. So did the market. So on theleft we've got SNDK with the relative
strength line. On the right we've gotthe cues. This this shows like three
months of price action. And to me thiswas a perfect example of that hidden
relative strength that we're talkingabout because
>> expand on that.>> This relative strength line broke out
when SNDK was doing nothing. It was justpulling back and consolidating in the
entire>> so much clear.
>> Yeah. And and and this is on a dailychart. But just to paint the picture
like big run takes a pause, pulls back,has a pretty big down day, experiences a
little pocket of relative weakness as itcomes off the highs. And they often do
that, right? Um they'll often first showrelative weakness as they consolidate
and then they start to hold and thenthey start to show relative strength and
you can see that that relative strengthline starts to turn up. halfway through
that consolidationand it starts to get a little bit
tighterand then that relative strength line
breaks out during and I put a little boxaround the red day little little kind of
dogee type red day before that that sortof breakout candle there
>> where the relative strength line breaksout and that's because if you look over
on the right I put a rectangle aroundthe candle in the Q's that occurred on
and the Q's had a big down today.>> So, we had a big down day that closed at
the lows in the market and SNDK barelybudged. And so, that's like that's the
perfect example to me of like thathidden relative strength where you're
like, "Wait a second.>> SNDK is just holding the 10day here
getting tighter and tighter and itcouldn't go down with the market. The
market had a huge sell day. Something'sgoing on, right? like there's a there's
a hidden bid in here and so we might begetting a lot closer to the breakout and
then of course like we got a big day thenext day and then a nice consolidation
Tesla levels Tesla level and breaks out.>> That's so interesting. So we gave two
good example like the Tesla was a stockthat was strong stronger than the market
on an upday and this is really likeyou're saying the hidden relative
strength where it's not green on theday. It's just holding up a lot better.
But yeah, when I was even saying theTesla relativity line broke out, this is
such a good breakout in relativity onthat bottom left chart. Like that's so
good. And like the thing with this islike first of all you're you're looking
at this for other reasons. Like you'relooking at this breakout because it's
overall one of the strongest stocks inthe market. It's got a great story and
it's in a great sector and there's atheme surrounding it and it's
consolidating and getting tight andgoing sideways and holding the 10day.
Like you might have all of thesereasons, but this is this is what I mean
about like you've got a stock thatyou're watching and you're just trying
to time it and gain clues to how closewe are to the breakout. And you might
use some of this hidden relativestrength to just give you clues as to
how close we're getting, right? Right.And not to even forget also like insane
the run it had in 2025 and for it toconsolidate that um in that upper
percentile of the range is crazy.>> Yeah.
>> Talk about a high tight flag likeplaybook that mark it up. That's
beautiful,>> right? Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. And
so it's it's a nice it's a nice littleexample of like, hey, you know, it's
it's not the kind of moment that you'regoing to get if you're screening for
like the strongest stocks on the day.I'm sure there were stronger stocks than
SNDK on this day,>> right? But oh yeah, like it wasn't even
green. I think it was like a little redcandle, but it was way stronger than the
market. So if you're watching SNDK andvery interested in this breakout then it
can be really good information for you.And so I think that like you know one
thing you can do is like we like what'syour favorite way to look at this Tim?
Let me ask you because I know like we'renot really looking at this relative
strength line when we're trading likewe've used this on the quant side. We've
kind of developed it for other reasonsfor scanners and different things like
that. But um when we're when you'rewatching the market like what are how
are you thinking about relativestrength?
>> Yeah, we mentioned it in general in thebeginning like as just a scanner but I
find it the most powerful when you arelooking for a trade. So again stock
selection is very important. where likewe're watching SNDK for all those
reasons and it's below the breakoutlevel and you're looking just to see if
there's any hints that this thing isgetting bought and institutions are
buying because at the end of the daylike what I try to lean back on is that
we are trying to follow big money likethat's how you catch explosive moves and
for me yeah that's exactly what it is.It's interesting too, like there were
other reasons for this SNDK to bewatching. Like I remember it was so hard
to find the article, but this was whenthere's that Samsung raising their
prices overnight catalyst. Um ithappened right after um this down day
and that was that small gap up into thenext day. So for me, it wouldn't have
been that you have to get involved.Actually, I want to make this point too.
You don't have to get involved rightwhen you find hidden relative strength
stock>> point because I'm not necessarily buying
that day at all.>> Exactly right. Because you want to wait
until usually the market turns up orjust like there is a breakout where like
it hidden relative strength could lastlonger than just one day and it doesn't
mean that this has to go but it means ifthe market does reclaim and start
trending higher this thing's going torip.
>> Exactly. So, it's like an alert. Andthat I'm so glad you brought that up
because I didn't even mention that.Like, it's not like I'm buying it on
that little red day just because I sawhidden relative strength. But when I get
that alert, however, I'm getting it now,it's just going to the top of my watch
list the next day. And that's likereally valuable because now we're
watching it even closer because we'rethinking like maybe it's it's just
getting closer to the breakout. And so Ithink sometimes those things are like
undervalued because like we're alwaystalking about entries and like how you
like how you get in and like what's agood trade and all that kind of stuff,
but like how's it get to the top of yourwatch list in the first place is a
really important factor in trading.>> I like that you're saying watch list.
That's actually like I kind of wish Ieven put said that for my answer, but
that's really what this is like. It'sjust a way of ranking your watch list
and in turn that's how you catch thesehuge breakout trades.
>> Right. Absolutely. Right. You you startwatching like earlier on in this move it
might be like fifth on the watch listlike yeah I think it's going to break
out at some point.>> Yeah. It starts to get tighter and
you're like you know what like this ismy secondary thing. I don't want to lose
track. And then as soon as you see thathidden relative strength and then
something happens the next day boom allof a sudden it's like wait a second like
this is the top the top thing. So it'sjust it's one of those pieces to the
puzzle.>> And similarly after it breaks above let
me see what price that was like 280after it has that next um it it broke
out from like a 30 minute consolidationum when it went to 280 had that pause
and then it had the pink line breakout.It's funny because then at that point
you're in the trade, but at the samepoint in terms of your actionable watch
list, now SNDK starts moving downbecause it is already made its move.
Like you're late to that move if you'relooking to play this,
>> right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you want toget the tip off early. You want to be
prepared for these damn things becausethey happen fast. So that's kind of the
point. It's like how many how many wayscan we get to like be hawking the right
breakouts because there's probably otherstocks maybe looking like they could
break out too. We want to we want tomake sure we're watching the right ones.
So this is kind of like one of the waysto do it, right? And bandwidth is a like
it's one of the harder aspects where youknow there's so many stocks moving every
single day and to really crush andcapitalize on trades like you do need to
focus and have like a priority watchlist where you prioritize like what's
the most actionable for your playbookand this is a great way of doing it.
>> Yeah, I agree. I it's it's funny to metoo like on the bandwidth topic if we
wanted to jump for a sec like it what isgreat about hidden relative strength is
that you get the little tips early thatokay there's a bid here this thing could
break out in a big way when the marketreclaims. What's also really hard about
it is actually just keeping track ofthese names and not forgetting that.
Okay. Oh, that was really likerelatively strong this day and like that
aspect of keeping track I find kind ofinteresting because that's the whole
name of the game,>> right? Yeah. You want to you want to
have a watch list written down somewherethat's organized systematically
in buckets, right? And like I know a lotof people on our desk will have just
purely like what's the relative strengthwatch list. It's literally a list of
names that have exhibited relativestrength in this way and that's it. And
like maybe they set up, maybe theydon't, but that's that's kind of the the
the stocks you don't want to lose trackof in that respect. I think that's a
really good idea,>> especially if you're
>> a breakout trader.Even talking again about relative
strength, it's like it's pretty easyright now to say uh SNDK is relatively
strong above 540, right? [laughter]>> Is that relative strength? I mean,
>> not what we're talking about.>> And it blew it blew out earnings
tonight. It's at like where where upthis was fun, Tim. I'm glad I'm glad you
brought me out of hiding for thisbecause I've been I've been in in bed
for like a week and a half with the fluwith a with a bottle of uh cough syrup
next to me, which I I hate that stuff.Remind me never to take that that stuff
next time I get sick. I'm done withthat. But I
>> they got to start making it a betterflavor, like just CocaCola or something.
Yeah, I've been uh hopping outoccasionally as as the metals have been
going crazy and and making some trades,but it's it's nice to be part of
civilization again. Um>> with silver and gold, talk about your
own uh Michael Jordan flu game thisweek.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if I would callit that. Um but anyway, this is this has
been great. I hope that uh yeah I hope Ihope people can kind of take something
from this and and you know with thisindicator these are the kind of things
in in Bionic Trader that we're thatwe're kind of sharing and giving out. So
come join us>> on Tuesdays.
>> Do you want to sit in on all of ourdaily and weekly in-house trader
meetings? There's no bigger edge retailtraders can get. Visit
smbtradingfloor.comto learn more.
>> Ask questions in the comments. Um atsome point we might look to answer some
of those. Uh, but keep asking questionin the comments and we'll try to
respond. And we're again still onSpotify if that's your preferred way of
listening.>> That's right.
>> And yeah, this was fun.>> All right, until next time, trade well.
See you next week.
