Myin Golden here. You are about to hear
a message that I did when I was speaking at a conference at Oakliff Bible
Fellowship Church in Dallas, Texas. You're definitely going to want to grab
a pen and a piece of paper. You're going to get some absolutely practical nuggets
that will help you impact your life in a positive direction for helping you
create generational wealth for your family. Enjoy. So, I'm I'm really
excited for y'all uh because I know what I'm going to talk about. And
wow, I can't wait to see what your act
reaction is when I actually say something funny. Um, yeah, what I'm going to share with y'all
tonight literally transformed my life in a way
that is for all practical intents and purposes
unexplainable. apart from the scriptures. Um,
I was having a conversation with Carl today in
the car and we were talking about how when I was a teenager and and Dr. Stan,
he led me to Christ and and then shortly after that he told me, "Now you need to
start reading the Bible." And I was horrified
cuz I had I was I was 16 years old and I had never read a book that wasn't a
comic book or a karate book. I didn't read books for school. I just
skimmed to look for the answers. I don't know. None of y'all probably did that.
That was probably just me. I I made that up. I invented that. And uh and I I was I'm like, "You mean
to tell me that now that I'm saved and I have this eternal
life thing and I'm going to heaven and all the good stuff, I got to read that
big old thick book with little bitty words, two columns,
and no pictures." See, y'all think I'm kidding, but that
was my thought. >> Yeah.
And I said, 'Okay, but I ain't fixing to play with God. So if I got to start
reading the Bible, I'm going to start reading the Bible. So I started reading
it. And I didn't know what to expect, but I didn't expect what I f found.
And what I found was instructions on how I could do life better. And I remember I remember like it was
yesterday. The very first biblical principle that I
found that I said I'm gonna find out, right? It said it it said, "Well, if you
do this, this, you can expect this." I bet you I'm gonna find out.
See, I have six brothers. I'm the second oldest. I don't want this rubbing on my
beard. So, if I'm messing with it, that's why. Just to get off my beard,
because I know that'll make it make all kinds of scratchy noises. That's better.
So, so I have six brothers, one older, five younger. We did not always get
along. And in our house, we loved each other,
but we had we had like some intense interactions, you know what I mean? And and sometimes
the volume got a little high and the words came out a little fast. It's kind
of intense. And I read this verse in Proverbs
chapter 15 verse number one where it says a soft answer turneth away wrath
but grievous words stir up. I said I'm going find
and one day I did something and I'm sure I did it cuz I know me better than
anybody. And my brother came in man I can't believe I said wow you know what I'm really
sorry I did that. >> Yeah you're right. I shouldn't have done
that. Yeah, I understand. I'm going to do my
best not to ever let that happen again. >> He's like, "Okay, okay." And he turned
around and walked away. I was like, "That was so cool." >> And scripture after scripture after
scripture after scripture, I just found these principles and I said, "Okay, I'm
going to try that. I'm going to apply it." And every time I applied a
scripture, it did exactly what God said it would do. Imagine that.
And so before I learned the Bible religiously, I
learned it practically. So I've always looked at it like a practical book. Like
when I was a little kid, I loved taking things apart, putting things together.
And so one of the things I would do is I would build little model cars cuz I
loved cars and I loved like taking these little plastic parts out, hooking them
glue together, putting them all together and making them look like cars and
making all the stuff function in the hood would open the doors. So I love
doing that kind of I love following instructions and then seeing the
outcomes at the end. And when I found out that the Bible is the instructions
for putting together this model called life, I was like, you said, I'm going to do
this. And and and when I when I when I started
going to church and and I was really excited about this and we had a bunch of
teenagers in our church that were really excited about this and we were
memorizing scripture and we we witness to people on the streets and we'd stay
up all night and have prayer meetings. I'm talking about teenagers. I'm not
talking about like some like older seasoned believers. No, we were just we
were just excited about the Lord because this whole this whole like spiritual
Christian walk thing was new and exciting and vibrant and real and and um
then I started noticing that I thought the preacher was
preaching to teach the people this is what you ought to do. Then I started
noticing most of the people weren't doing any of that's like and I wasn't
judgmental. I was just confused. I was like I've only been in this thing for a
little while and the stuff I've tested it works y'all.
>> What y'all doing? What y'all waiting on? >> Right. Okay. And so
what happens is often times we get our doctrine as handme-down doctrine. And that hand-me-down doctrine
can come from somebody who got it as handme-down doctrine. And then sometimes
I noticed I would study stuff and I would read stuff and I had memorized all
these verses. And when you memorize a bunch of Bible verses, what happens is
the Bible becomes a commentary on the Bible
because you start looking at scripture in light of scripture and you start
comparing spiritual things with spiritual things and you start seeing
things that are not on the surface. Does that does that make sense? And so so so
I was confused as to why people weren't doing this and it worked so well.
And so, and then I noticed that there were a lot of religious beliefs in the
church that weren't really biblical and they were they were they were
traditionally like churchianity,
but they weren't Bible. Anyway,
um I I remember I remember my first day in
Bible college and I remember going to a first and second Corinthians class and I
remember the professor joked around for about 45 minutes and then we read a
verse and then we dismissed and I was like and I remember as a freshman my
very first day thinking to myself, this man must not ever read the Bible.
There's too much good stuff in here for us to waste that much time when we're
coming here to learn the Bible. So, this man must not ever study the Bible.
That's what I thought. And I wasn't being judgmental. I was just being being
observant. But surely I'm I'm 19 years old. What do I know? So, certainly I'm
missing something. Anyway, the reason I say all of that is because
I've I've I've I've served in church as an assistant pastor in my life probably
15 to 17 years. I've served in the church um as an evangelist probably for
six or seven years. I've served in the church as a senior pastor for a year and
a youth pastor in bus ministry and all you you know church lot
and and I've heard so many sermons that were
warning about
the dangers of wealth and
and the Bible definitely gives some warnings about wealth. Let's don't be
confused about it. But I've never heard a sermon warning us
about the perils of poverty. It's an observation. It's an
observation. I was like I was like the Bible does say
that a rich man's wealth is his strong city, his financial fortress, but the
destruction of the poor is their poverty. And I was like, where's the
sermon on that? >> The drunkard and the glutton shall lie
down together, and drowsiness will clothe a man with rags. Where's the
sermon on that? And Like it's not like, well, which one's
true? The blessing of the Lord that maketh rich and they add as though
sorrow with it or labor not to be rich. Which one's Which one's Which one's
true? Well, they're both true. In context, they're talking about two
totally different things. And I I think one of our biggest
problems as as B as people who actually read the Bible and seek to do what it
says, one of our biggest problems in understanding the Bible is we believe
that the verse numbers are inspired, not not consciously, but subconsciously.
And so we find a verse, lift it out of context, and try to turn it into a
doctrine that God never intended. >> And so there are some warnings about
wealth. I've given them to you really quickly so you won't have that on your
mind while I'm teaching you how to go get some. The Bible warns us not to love money.
Money is a money is a side benefit. It's a bonus.
It's a grape. It's icel on a cake. It's gravy on some mashed potatoes. It's a
bonus. I dare say as much as all of us may like
gravy, none of us ever went to a restaurant and ordered a plate of gravy. >> Am I telling the truth?
>> Tell you what, don't want the cake. Just give me
I'm going to eat icing for dessert. Nobody does that. See, there's
there's nothing wrong with the bonuses unless we make the bonus the main thing.
Don't love the money and use the people. Don't use the people to get the money
that you love. Use the money and love the people.
and then use the money to love the people. Boy, that'd be a good way to do
it, wouldn't it? >> See, the reason we love the money is
because we think the money is up here. And the reason we think the money's up
here is because for most people, getting money is the
thing they spend most of their time on. I mean, think about it. They spend most
of their time getting the mud. You don't spend eight hours a day doing
anything else. And if you work overtime, you don't spend 10 or 12 hours a day
doing any anything else. And so what would happen in our lives if
we realized that the way to get the money is just
serve the people and the purpose of getting the money is to serve the
people. >> Wouldn't that change everything?
>> Okay. So the Bible warns don't love the money. The Bible also warns us, don't
lean on the money. What does that mean? Trust not in the uncertainty of riches.
If I don't trust the money, because riches certainly make themselves wings
and fly away as a bird towards heaven. The money is not your
source. The money is not even a resource. God is
the source. We are the resource. The money is an asset
>> and it's a depreciating asset. Okay.
So, don't lean on the money. Don't trust in money.
I don't care how much money you have. Give us this day our daily bread. Learn
to trust in the Lord because when the money fails, he won't.
Okay? So, don't don't love the money. Don't
lean on the money. Don't lust after the money. labor not to
be rich is in the context of how to behave yourself when you're in the
presence of a person of need. Because the very next verse says, "Put a knife
to your throat if you be a man. Give it the appetite." That's not talking about
cut your throat every time you're hungry.
It's just talking about you'd be better off to cut your throat than think that
when you're invited to a function in the presence
of people of means. Don't make the mistake of thinking you're there for the
food. That's what it means when it says put a knife to your throat if lest you
be a man- given appetite. And when it says labor not to be rich, it's it's
telling you don't try to get your hands in the rich people's pockets.
That's all it's saying. Read it in its context. Okay?
it it does give us some more warnings, but I want to get into the message
tonight. And the reason I I talked about all this because I'm going to say some
things tonight that you're going to have some internal resistance about.
And you're going to have internal resistance
because of something mom and them told you,
grandmom and them told you because they heard a preacher preach
about a long time ago. Really, really? See, y'all have the good fortune. No,
I'm I'm I'm I'm It sounds like I'm being funny, but I'm I'm being very serious.
Y'all have the good fortune of having been led by a pastor for decades who
understands the kingdom of God. All Christians don't have that.
In fact, most churches don't have that. I've heard some preachers preach and
I've wondered if they've ever seen a Bible.
>> I'm not even kidding. >> I'm like, "What are we doing here? What
are you What are you What where'd you get that from? It's not in the Bible.
Everything that God has ever done, he's done through his word. He doesn't need
my sensationalism. He doesn't need my talent. He doesn't need my
intelligencia." Okay?
So, I'm going to tell you what happened. And then I'm going to tell you what
happened after what happened to happen. So back in the early 2000s, I learned
how to execute in entrepreneurship. I learned how to execute in
entrepreneurship to the degree after after 14 years of struggling in
entrepreneurship. I learned how to operate at a level that in 1999 I had my
first six-figure year and it was like mindb bler because the year before that
I only made $48,000 and within a couple of years our
business was doing over seven figures and
I was like this is this is kind of amazing and then we went
through seven years of tragedy. It felt like
tragedy. The first year was definitely a tragedy when my oldest son, Adam, was in
a car accident and passed away four days later.
I cannot describe the agony of soul and the surreal
feeling as a father when you're standing there and you're watching your child die
and there's nothing you can do. And I'm not trying to make y'all I'm not trying
to like make y'all feel sorry for me. Don't feel sorry for me. heaven is more
real than earth. [Applause] And then the next year they created the
the great recession and I decided I'm not participating in this. But my clients didn't make the same
decision. So people who owe me hundreds of thousands of dollars got abducted by
aliens because I've never heard from them or seen them again.
And literally for seven years it was something like that. By 2010 we got
audited by the IRS. They told us we owed him a million $65,000. I didn't have
65,000 or a million. 2012
my Mercedes got me possessed. And I know you thought I meant to say repossessed,
but I did. Repossess is when they come get it. Me possess is when you take it
back to them. [Applause] 
Where y'all want me to bring this far? I ain't sitting no more of a Oh, y'all think I'll play her.
In 2008, I bought a house for a million27,000
and in 2012 sold it for $634,000. That's called a short sale. And then proceeded to live on borrowed
money for two years. Cuz I had a friend who when he was down, I helped him. And
when I was down, he helped me. So
I tell you all that story because in 201 13 and 14 2012 13 don't borrow money
2014 started coming up out of it a little bit 2015 I discovered in the
Bible a business model
that has changed my life in ways I could not have imagined. The business model
that I found and I I'm telling you the story because it's a real
transformational story. 10 years ago, I was broke. I broke is relative. I I
might have made low six figures 10 years ago
and left I don't know,
six years we've made over $50 million in our business. So, and and it's all
because of what I'm going to show you tonight. And I'm not saying that because
making all that money is all it's like the money's not even mine. Oh, that's
another warning about wealth. Lay not up for yourself treasures upon the earth.
Doesn't it say that? Lay not for yourself. You say, "But you just said
you made $50 million." How could you How can you justify that? Lay down for
treasure because I It's not my money. That money belongs to my children and my
grandchildren. Because the same Bible that says lay not up for yourselves, key
word, treasure upon the earth, that same passage, that same Bible says a good man
leaveth an inheritance to his children's children. And see, if we want to say,
well, that's not talking about money. Yeah, that's a good way to let yourself
off the hook. That's talking about a godly heritage,
right? That's what you said. I let the Bible infer with the Bible. Here's what
scripture says. House and riches are the inheritance of fathers. So, so, so, so Lord, you trying to tell
me that I'm supposed to give my children a house and some riches so they don't
have to start from scratch. >> I didn't put it in there. It was in my
Bible when I got up this morning. By the way, how much better would all of
our lives be had our parents started us with a house and some rich
and you say, "But my parents couldn't do that." I'm going to quote a good friend
of mine and one of my clients, Dr. Sonia. Here's what she says. You may not
come from a wealthy family, but make sure a wealthy family comes from you. Father, thank you for your word. I pray
that you'd open our minds. I pray that you'd open our spirits. I pray that
you'd make us willing to receive your truth. I pray that everybody here would
do their own study. Not don't take my word for it. Who am I? I'm a vessel.
May they go home and break out their Strong's concordance and their treasury
of scripture knowledge and all their Bible study books and Bible dictionaries
and encyclopedias and study this word for themselves. And don't take my word
for it. Yeah. But Lord, whatever else we do, please
help us to take your word for it. When we find out that it's truth, may we run
in that direction for the rest of our lives. In the name of Yeshua, amen.
First Kings chapter 3. I found in the Bible King Solomon's business model. The
scripture tells us that Solomon was the wisest, wealthiest man on her earth. And
it tells us exactly, everybody say exactly.
>> Exactly what his business was. I found this. I was so excited. I remember
talking to my brother. I like, "Bro, you don't even understand. I found this
thing in the Bible that I've never seen before. King Solomon's business model.
I'm going to apply it to my business. I just come through seven years of like
absenteeing trauma. We about to have seven years of triumph. It's going to be
crazy. >> I didn't know it was going to be this
crazy. Okay. So, we're going to start in First
Kings chapter 3. I'm going to read verses 1 down to verse
number 14. And this is this is this chapter that
I'm going to read right here. This is introduction.
Okay? This is not this is not the sermon. This is this is the
introduction. So, you can it's laying the groundwork. Okay? It says, "And
Solomon made an affinity with Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and took Pharaoh's
daughter and brought her into the city of David until he had made an end to the
building of his own house and the house of the Lord and the wall of Jerusalem
roundabout." Now, the first thing that we see that Solomon did, we're not even
at his business model yet. He's laying the frame fl he's laying the framework.
This is Solomon's preparation for his business model. This is before he even
receives the business model. This is just Solomon being a yielded vessel to
the Lord. But he did something he shouldn't have
done. But it still benefited the kingdom.
Here's what he did. Solomon made an affinity with Pharaoh, king of Egypt,
and took Pharaoh's daughter and brought her into the city of David until he made
in hand the building of his house and the house of the Lord and the wall of
Jerusalem roundabout. So Solomon procured
powerful partnerships. I'm going to tell you something. One of the things I've
learned in business is that two are better than one
and a three-fold core is not quickly broken. See, people say, "Well, I don't
I I don't I I don't I don't have an audience." That's okay. You don't have
to have an audience. If you have an offer, somebody who has an audience
doesn't have an offer for that audience. So, you find somebody who has an
audience and you mix your offer with their audience and y'all split the money
and both of y'all make more than either one of y'all would have made by
yourself. >> See, all principles are microcosms of
each other. Here's what the scripture says. If one if one will chase a
thousand, two will put what? 10,000 flight. Now, that's God math because my
math would say, well, if one will chase a thousand, two would chase 2,000. But
God man says if one will chase a thousand two will put 10,000 to flight.
Okay that those are war terms. All principles are microcosms of each other.
If we put it in wealth terms if one person can make a thousand two people
can make 10,000. Now watch this. Half of 10,000 is five
times more than 100% of 1,000. So partnering with the right person can
help both of you profit more than singing Frank Sinatra's I did it my way. Okay. Only the people sacrificed in the
high places because there was no house built into the name of the Lord up to
those days. And Solomon loved the Lord walking in the stats statues of David
his father and he sacrificed and burned incences in the high place. Solomon
loved the Lord. See the so the passion Solomon possessed was powerful. He
possessed a powerful passion for the Lord. See, we were made to please him.
>> Don't miss that. Revelation 4:11 tells us why we're here.
What does it say? Thou art worthy, oh Lord, to receive glory and honor and
power. For thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are. They
exist, and that's why they work. I'm here to please God. Solomon realized
it. So, he loved the Lord because he realized that's why I'm here.
He didn't miss the point when he was young. Okay, good. Y'all Okay,
then it says, "And he walked in the statues of David,
his father. Solomon patterned a powerful path.
He walked in the statutes of David, his father. Solomon said, "You know what? I
think I'm going to go reinvent the league." He said, "My father David was
the greatest king who ever lived. I'm going to do my king stuff like King
David did his king stuff." Okay, y'all with me?
Then it says, "And the king went to Gideon to sacrifice therefore that was a
great high place. And a thousand burnt offerings
did Solomon offer upon the altar." So now we see
that the price that Solomon paid was a premium because a burnt offering is a
picture of total sacrifice. A burnt offering says, "I am going to sacrifice
this and I'm going to burn it all up. I'm not keeping anything for myself.
It's all yours." And the scripture says he offered a thousand burnt offerings.
I'm giving you everything I have a thousand times over. My life is here for
you. The things that were written before time
were written for our learning that we through patience and comfort of the
scripture might have hope. This Old Testament story is a picture of it's a
picture of Romans 12:1. What does it say? I beseech you therefore, brethren,
by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a what? Living sacrifice.
Not a dead sacrifice. a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God,
which is your reasonable service. So when and I I believe that that's a
picture of a living burnt offering. We burn up our energy, our life force,
sacrificing. Sacrifice means to let go of something of a lower nature so you
take a hold of something of a higher nature. I'm I'm burning up my life
energy living it to carry out the work of the one who made me a thousand burnt offerings. Okay.
And then it says in Gibian the Lord appeared under
Solomon in a dream by night and asked what shall I give thee? We'd all like to
have that dream. God wakes you up. Boy, wake up. Mhm.
I got a blank check up here with your name on it. What do you want?
I own everything. I own the cattle on a thousand hills and the hills under those
cattle. What do you want? You know, we said, "Well, one of these, two of these,
three of those, four of those, one in green, two in blue." Uh, I just wrote a
rebel. Solomon didn't say that. We see what I believe is one of the most
powerful prayers in all of scripture. Ask what I shall give thee. And Solomon
said, "Thou showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy, according
as walked before thee in truth and uprightness of heart with thee, and has
kept for him this great kindness, that thou has given him a son to sit on his
throne as it is this day. And now, oh Lord my God, thou has made thy servant
king instead of David my father. But I am but a little child. I know not how to
go out or come in. And thy servant is of the misti people which thou has chosen a
great people that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. Give therefore
thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people that I may discern
between good and bad. For who is able to judge this thy so great people? We see
the prayer that Solomon prayed was for the people. Solomon said, I I I'm I I literally
started praying this prayer every day. Dear Lord, give me the wisdom to do the
thing you put me on this earth to do in a way that pleases you and serves the
people you put me here to serve. Why? Because I realized that I was
inadequate. I realized I was inep. I realized that I was insufficient. I
realized that I was incapable on my own of making it work. I already attempted
to make it work by myself. And enough of what I did. I got my car me possessed
and my house short sold. And I used to make a lot of money. Now I don't know
what to do. Well, just give me wisdom to do the thing you put me on this earth to
do in a way that pleases you. It serves the people you put me here. Solomon said, "I don't know. I'm a
little child. I'm unable,
incapable of doing the thing you created me for without you.
How about that for an awareness? How about that for a wakeup call? See, you
thought your lack of qualification means you're not supposed to do it. But your
lack of qualification means you're supposed to pray your way through it. And the reason God doesn't call the
qualified, but he qualifies the call, is because no
flesh is supposed to glory in his presence. So therefore, his strength is
made perfect in our weakness. Your weakness is where God has room to work.
I don't know what to do. Congratulations. You're called. I didn't. These are principles all
throughout. He I I love what Samuel said when when
Jesse called all of his sons except the one for whom the coronation was. Called
everybody but they Samuel dissed them all. Samuel said,
"The Lord has not chosen this. The Lord has not chosen this. The Lord has not."
He didn't even say him. He said this. God uses small things so he could show
up in a big way. See, if you were good at it, then you
could get some credit. Okay, you get it. So he said, "Dear
Lord, what what if what if every father because here's the reality. First, when
you start having them babies, you don't know how to be a dad. What do you do with this? Yeah. >> Dear Lord, give me the wisdom to be the
father you put me on this earth to be in a way that pleases you and serves these
children you give me to serve. You get married and you find out the man finds
out that his w his wife is not a man with long hair. No, she ain't like a man. She's not only
physically not like a man, she's emotionally not like a man. She's
spiritually not like a man. She's sub she's psychologically not like a man.
And he's so confused. You know why all the guys are laughing?
Cuz they remember being confused or they are confused. The woman gets married and she says,
"Why does he do that? Why does he do this?" and and and then and and and
women sometimes they have to ask you, well, why did you do that? And why did
you do this? What did And he don't know. He did it because it felt like the thing
to do. He don't he he don't have all the
reasons like you do. [Applause] 
And the ones he has, he don't have words for them. He don't know why he get you
know, you know, when you first start learning math, you know, sometimes you
just throw the they want you to show your work. I don't know. I know the
answer, but I don't know how to show my work. Am I telling the truth?
>> Dear Lord, give me the wisdom to be the husband you put me on this earth to be
in a way that pleases you and serves this wife you give me to serve. Dear
Lord, give me the wisdom to be the wife you put here to be in a way that pleases
you and serves husband you give me to serve. And then you go to get a job and
it's like, oh no, I'm lost. Dear Lord, give me the wisdom to be the employee
you sent me here to be a way you serve employer to be the ser. And then you
become an employer and you hire. I don't know what to do when you hire people.
Now my job is to figure out what to do for their job so I can tell them what to
do. So I spend loads of my time chasing them around telling them what to dear
Lord give me the wisdom to be there for you. You're going to be in a way to
please you ser you you give me to hire.
Not knowing is what causes you to lean on the one who knows.
Read >> that. And it says verse 10, "And the speech pleased the
Lord that Solomon asked had asked this thing. And God said unto him, because
thou has asked this thing, and has not asked for thyself
long life, neither hast thou asked riches for thyself,
nor hast thou asked for the life of thine enemies. In fact,
the only thing that Solomon asked for for himself
was for God and the people God said to him, "Sir, what if that was our heart's
desire? What if that was the result of our lives
being a living birth sacrifice? Okay. Nor hast thou asked for the life of
thine enemies, but thou has asked for thyself, understanding the discerned
judgment. Behold, I have done according to thy words. Lo, I have given thee a
wise and understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before thee,
neither after thee shall he arise like unto thee. You are going to be the best
of the best. You can forget about the rest.
Then he said, um,
neither shall any rise at like a neither shall neither after thee shall an air
rise like unto thee. And I've also given thee that which thou come both riches
and honor, so that there shall be no not any among the kings like unto thee all
thy days. And if thou wil walk in my ways and keep my statutes and my
prunance as thy father David to walk, then I will lengthen thy days. Let's go
down to verse number 20 set.
No, that that's not it. That's not it. Um
let's go to chapter four. That's where I'm going to go. Chapter four. Chapter
four. What is the result of this? what God
promised Solomon. Here's what it is. Chapter 4 29. And God gave Solomon
wisdom and understanding exceeding much and largest of heart, even as the sand
that is on the seashore. And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the
children of the east country and all the wisdom of Egypt. And he was wiser than
all men. And in case you don't know who that includes, he was wiser than Eth the
Ezraite and Hammon and Kakal and Darda and the sons of Bahal. and his fame was
in all nations roundabout. Ah
hm. Oh, it but it's about to get better
cuz it says and he spake 3,000
proverbs and his songs were a thousand and5
and he spake of trees from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon unto the hissup
that springeth forth out of the wall. And he spake also of beast and foul and
creeping things and of fishes. Now notice what it says next. And there came
of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomon from all the kings of the earth.
Remember that now which he which had heard of his wisdom. Now here's what's
really interesting. It says all these people came, but it
tells why they came. because he wrote 3,000 proverbs
and his psalms his songs were a thousand5. So Solomon
created content.
His promotions were penetrating 3,000
proverbs. Oh, by the way, they didn't have Instagram,
Facebook, LinkedIn, Tik Tok, tick tock. I said I almost said
tic tac. Tik Tok, YouTube. They didn't matter. But the wisdom that Solomon had
when he wrote and when he spoke was so mindblowing that people couldn't stop
talking about. In fact, people heard about it and they
said, "Oh, I I don't believe it. I don't believe it. I'm going to go find out for
myself. I don't believe it." Boom. Okay. Now, here's what's really
interesting about let me let me let me give you just a little side nugget
before we get into the business model because we're about to get into business
model. This is all introduction. This is Solen laying the groundwork. We're
getting ready for what God already had ready for it.
It says, "He spake of trees, he spake also of beasts and of foul and
of creepy things and of fishes. And there came all the Wait, wait, wait.
Find out. You telling me that people came from all over the
world?" Cuz this man was talking about trees and animals and insects and fish
and birds. Yep. What could he have possibly
said? Well, without going into too much
detail, what Solomon did when he wrote about
these commonplace things was he showed us uncommon lessons in commonplace
things. Uncommon lessons like what for instance? Oh, I'm glad you asked that
question. Like in Proverbs chapter 30 where it says, "There be four things
which are little on the earth, but they are exceeding wise." Hm, that's
interesting. And then he says uh the answer are people not strong yet they
prepare their meat in the summer. That doesn't seem like all that big of a deal
unless you understand the significance of it. So Solomon says there be four things which are little
upon the earth but they are exceeding wise. What's he saying? You can be wise
beyond your size. The ants are people not strong. What
they prepare their meat in the summer. What do we learn from the ant? learn the
wisdom of contemplation from the ants because they know how to prepare
for the future. It was like,
you know why people did that? Because they've seen ants before, but they never
came to that conclusion. Um, the conies are a feeble folk and
they make their houses in the rocks. A con is a rock batcher. They're fe they
have no protection. They have no they have no built-in protection. So, we
learn the wisdom of compensation from the coney because they know how to
protect themselves with things that are stronger than they are. So, when the
lion and the bear come after the con, the con runs into the rock. Now, in
Israel, they have these rock mountains. And in these rock mountains, they got
these little bitty hills and you see rock badges just running in and out of
these little bitty holes and and and just so people had seen these rock
badges. They probably had seen um predators chasing these and the rock
badger goes in. Now, the prey can't go. People were like, "Oh my goodness, never heard
anything like this before." And then it says, "The locusts have no king, but
they go all they go forth all of them by bads." What do we learn from the locust?
We learn the wisdom of cooperation from the locust because they all participate.
True or better than one? A three-fold cord is not quickly broken. And then it
says, "And the spider taketh hold with her hands and is in the king's palaces."
We learn the wisdom of comp. We learn the wisdom of compensation from the
spider because they learn how to capitalize on what
others have done. What does that mean? A spider can't build a palace, but a
spider can live in one. See, I can't invent the internet, but I
can capitalize on the fact that it exists.
I can't invent technology, but I can capitalize on the fact that it exists.
Or I can not have the wisdom of the spider and ignore it.
Do you see what I mean when I say he teaches uncommon lessons from
commonplace things? Okay, y'all get cool. And he had so many of these.
Imagine 3,000 of these. And then imagine having a 105
top 10 hits. Solomon said, "Yeah, I'm gonna hit him
on the education front. I'm going to hit him on the entertainment front.
They ain't going to be able to get away from my impact.
Okay, now we're going to look at Famous Father. Now y'all understand who we
deal. Everybody ready? This is the part that changed my life.
Proverbs I mean it's first Kings chapter 10. It says when the Queen of Sheba had
heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the Lord, how did she hear
about him? I wonder. Oh, might have been one of those 3,000 proverbs. might have
been one of those thousand5 songs, right? Okay. And see, see, some of y'all
are so busy. But I don't like I don't like the internet. I don't like social
media. I don't like it either, but I'm going to show use it cuz it's
there. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. When the queen of Sheba heard of Solomon
concerning heard of the fame of Solomon, concerning the name of the Lord, she
came to prove him with hard questions because she didn't believe it. And she
came to Jerusalem with a very great train and camels that bear spices and
very much gold and precious stones. And when she came to Solomon, she communed
with him of all that was in her heart. And Solomon told her all her questions.
There's not hid anything from the king which he told her not. And when the
queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon's wisdom, and the house that he had built,
and the meat of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the
attendance of his ministers, and their apparel, and his his cup bears, and his
set by which he went up into the house of the Lord,
there was no more spirit in her. He took her brother away. And then and she said verse six, "And
she said to the king, it was a true report that I
heard in mine own land of thy acts and of thy wisdom. How be it I believe not
until I came and mine eyes have seen and behold the half was not told me. Thy
wisdom and thy prosperity exceedth the fame which I heard. What? Hey, what she
heard about King Solomon was so outlandishly magnificent. There was a
ain't no ain't nobody like that. There ain't no way. I'mma go find those
goss just in case he is though. I'mma bring
some stuff with me. And she said, "The how was not told me."
Because Solomon's wisdom preceded him, but Solomon's wisdom did not exceed him.
I mean, his reputation preceded him, but his reputation did not exceed him. And
see, the experience of him was at least twice as good
as the explanation of him. Let me ask you, so so, so when people
met Solomon, it wasn't a letback. They were exp.
Oh my goodness, you're better than that. Is that what people experience when they
experience you? That you are so much better than what they earned. They like
they don't even have a place in their head to put it. up. So we see the first
card of King Solomon's business model and that is that King Solomon was a consultant
to his contemporaries.
King Solomon consulted with other monarchs and taught them how to run
their kingdoms as smoothly as he was running Israel. Now, here's what's really cool. Let me
show you something. In the Bible, in the Old Testament, in Hebrew, the
word kingdom and the word business are so similar. They literally are one
letter apart. This this word is so I get excited to start writing too
fast. Okay, this this this letter is m See, I told you I'm going to erase it
this time. I'm not doing that again. Okay, calm down, Myra. You ran out of
time. But But you still got to Okay. Ma. So that's that's the word ma is the word
for king. The word for business
is this one has an olive.
and one me. This one has no olive and two males. When words are that closely
related is because they're built from similar components.
Each one of these letters has a meaning. The letter me is the might of the ocean.
So this is mighty. This is towards it's it's the shepherd's crooked torch. This
letter represents God. This represents the palm of the hand and this represents
behold. Business and kingdom are similar. Entrepreneurship,
being a business owner is like being an Old Testament king.
Hiring employees is like having people that serve in your kingdom. And then you
have clients and those are the people that you serve in your kingdom as well.
You and the people who serve you serve your your people. That's what it's like.
So Solomon was a he was a he was a consultant to his contemporaries.
He showed people who were in the same business he was in how to do what they
were doing as good as he did it. So if you know how to do something,
you can literally build your own business kingdom. Teaching other people
how to do the thing you know how to do because they want to know how to do it.
I said, "Well, I know since I don't know how to do everything, but I know how to
do some things and the I got a couple of things I'm real good at.
I'm not real good at anything, but I'm real good at some stuff. Okay, so hang
in there with me. Notice what it says. It says, "Happier," this is uh uh verse
eight. Happy are these thy men. Happy are these thy servant which stand
continually before thee, and hear thy wisdom. Blessed be the Lord thy God,
which delighted in thee to set thee on the throne of Israel. cuts.
Everybody, listen to what she says. This is this is this is this is a pagan
queen. This is not a she's not a she's not a child of she's not one of the
children of God. She's not an Israelite. She's not a Hebrew. It says
it says because the Lord loved Israel forever, therefore made he the king to
do judgment and justice. Are you so good at what you do that even
lost people when they look at you, they realize that God put that favor on your
life because he loved the people he sent you here to serve.
[Applause] God said this woman, this this Queen of
She said God loved the children of Israel so much he gave them you to be
their kids. Is that what people see when they look
at you? >> Okay. >> Okay. Hang in there with me. I promise
I'm almost done. Is where was it? Jes Israel forever. Uh
he uh blessed be the Lord thy God. Because he loved Israel forever,
therefore made he the king to do judgment and justice. And then it says,
"And she gave the king and 120 talents of gold, spices, a very great store, and
precious stones, and there came no more such abundance of spices as those which
the Queen of Sheba gave to King Sal." Okay, so what we're going to do is we're
going to calculate this 120 talents of gold because when she King Solomon
consulted his contemporaries, he He charged them a premium. He didn't charge them what his time was
worth. He didn't charge them based on how many hours he spent with them. He
charged them based on the result they would get as a result of following what
he told them. He charged them based on the payoff. And based on the payoff, he
made them pay out >> 120 cal. Now I when I read that, you
know what it meant to me? Absolutely nothing.
No one had ever paid me one talent of bolts. I had nothing to relate it to. So
I went to do some research and here what I found out. A talent
weighed somewhere between 68 lb and 74 lbs depending on what
country it was from. Pounds.
Okay, that didn't hit you yet. Let's say 70 lbs. Let's go in the middle. 70 lbs.
Closer to the bottom there. 120
times 70. I got to get my calculator out now cuz
cuz I don't want to mess this math up because the want make sure the math is
mathing. So 120 time 70 that is 8,400 lb of gold.
Somebody say that's a lot. Okay. How many ounces are there in a
pound again? Okay. So let's multiply that times 16. Okay. That's 134,400 ounces of gold. How much is gold right
now per ounce? Like $3,100. It's 3,000 something. Let's just call her 3100. So
in today's dollars, the Queen of Sheba would have paid King
Solomon $416,640,000. That's one monarch, one consultation,
one time. Now, I don't have a $416,000
$416 million offer, but I do have a $416,000 offer.
>> Yeah. See, here, how do you how do you charge people $416,000 to work with you?
Easy. When they ask me how much it cost, I'll say it cost $416,000. Now, I'm I want to make I want to make I
want to make it clear. I have helped clients
make millions and millions and millions of dollars. And if I talk to somebody
and I can show them how to make a million dollars and they think that's
only worth two or three thousand, either their logic is off or their math
is off. And either way, I can't fix that. I'm going to go work with somebody
else. I'm not confused about it. And I'm not
going to apologize for it. I found it in the Bible and I'm not char by the way by the way like it gives me
the ability to go and speak in churches and charge them nothing. It gives me the
ability to support widows and orphans around the world. It gives me the
ability when people in my family are in trouble I can pray for them and give
them some money to help them through their problem.
Okay. He was a consultant to his contemporaries. And by the way, if you
go read I don't have time because I only have five four minutes left. So if you
go read first Kings chapter 9, you will see that 120 talents of gold was the
going rate because it tells us another king gave him six score talents of gold.
That's what he charged the king. And and by the way, it tells us, the Bible tells
us that all the kings of the earth came to Solomon and paid him to learn his
wisdom. If all the kings of the earth come to you and they all pay you $416
million, you probably going to have some money. What am I saying? I'm saying find if
you're an entrepreneur and that's what you're good at, find other entrepreneurs
and choose how to be entrepreneurs. But see, I know I know for a fact that there
is in the United States of America a homemaker
who taught people how to do homemaking and wrote books on homemaking and made
videos on homemaking and created courses on homemaking and she became a
billionaire. Her name is Martha Stewart. Okay, y'all are with me kind of. And I
know I came out kind of swinging tonight, but y'all hang in there. Okay,
so the first part of his business model was he was a consultant to his
contemporaries. Let's go down. Let's jump down to verse number 23.
So, King Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom,
I guess. So, all the kings of the earth came to him and paid him $416 million
to teach them how to run their governments.
Okay. And then it says,
"And they brought every man his present vessels of silver and vessels of gold
and armor and spices and horses and mules. I rate year by
year." Do y'all remember back in chapter 4 when it said all the people of the
earth came to Solomon who came from where? All the kings of the earth. So
when the kings came and learned from Solomon, they went back to their
kingdoms and then they sent their king their their royal subjects and their
citizens to go learn from Solomon. So they didn't rebel when Solomon taught
when Vra, they're applying the principles that Solomon taught them in
their kingdom. But everybody who came paid Solomon.
That's what this is talking about. Notice that it says and Solomon all the
kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom and all the earth sought to
Solomon to hear his wisdom. Now let me ask you a question. Let's use our logic.
Can Solomon talk to every person on earth one-on-one? That's not even
possible. That's not possible for anybody. So, what what's the next part
of Solomon's business model? Here's the next part of Solomon's business model.
Solomon was a communicator
to crowds. Solomon was doing seminars before Tony
Robbins ever thought of it. And if you go to the ancient world, you
will see there are coliseums that hold 10,000 people, 20,000 people, 30,000
people. And I believe that Solomon had people come and they came to his
seminars to hear his wisdom and they paid. How do I know they pay? Here's
what it says. Verse 24, and all the earth sought Solomon hear
his wisdom that God had put in his heart. So Solomon didn't believe that
just because God put it in his heart for free that he needed to give it to
everybody for free. I'm talking like this because I know who
I'm talking to. Okay, here's what it says next. It says,
"They brought every man his present vessels of silver and vessels of gold
and garments and armors and spices and horses and mules."
So, they all paid. So, if all the kings are paying you $416
million and then all their people are coming, let's just say they're all
paying $20. It's kind of hard for you not to create
wealth. And the last part of his business model,
it says they paid him a rate year by year.
Solomon was the king of continuity cash flow.
So Solomon sold it to him once, but they came back and paid him every year.
Solomon had continuity for a book. See, I said what I'm going to do in my
33 seconds. What I'm going to do, I'm going to serve people who are in the
same business I'm in, and I'm going to teach them how to do the bit parts of
the business that I'm really good at, and I'm going to charge them a lot of
money to learn how to do it because it's worth a lot of money. And then when
regular folk come to me, and they want to learn something from me, I might
teach them something simple. I might teach them how to like we just had an
event in Dallas um Friday and Saturday. It was called
Content to Cash Flow Live. I charged 297 $299.
261 people bought tickets and I flew I paid for um Brendan Kane to come from
London. I paid for um Adley Kisman to come from Nashville, Tennessee because
they're the two smartest people I know on how to make video content go viral.
And I paid them to come and talk to my people who gathered to came hear me. And
then I taught them. They taught them how to make content. I taught them how to
make cash flow from the content they made.
Everybody went home happy as a lark in a park in the dark. I all of this stuff I do, I got it from
the Bible. My entire business, I have a coaching program for entrepreneurs.
It's $55,000 a year. And I teach King Solomon's business model. And people who
believe in God and love God come and they pay me $55,000. And people who
don't believe in God and don't love God come and they pay me $55,000. And I teach all of them to
don't ask for permission and I don't ask for forgiveness cuz I paid for the rose. [Applause] 
I have people who ain't even remotely close to believing what I believe and
they pay me what I charge because they want what they see I have. This changed my life. It changed my
family's life. It gave me the ability to create
generational. I don't have I'm not I'm not saying this to brag because I don't
have anything to brag about. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from
above and cometh down from the father of lights with whom there's no
variableness, neither shadow or return. And the fact that I can talk and walk
and hear and see and smell and hold things in my hands is a gift from God.
I'm not I'm not confused. But by the grace of God, I've used the
gifts that God has given me to create legacy wealth in my family so nobody has
to start from scratch. But Marin, aren't you worried about the money ruining your
children? No, I'm not. Because we taught our children how to
how to handle the money before we ever had any money.
My children are more financially responsible than I am. And I'm really
financially responsible. You know why? Because we didn't give
them money. I heard my son say one day, "We're rich." I said, "Boy, y'all ain't
rich. Me and your mom are rich." But I knew that one day they would be
rich because everything I was working on, I was I'm not making I don't work
because I need the money. I don't even work because my kids and my grandkids
need the money. I work because work is how one it's one of the ways I exercise
my godlikeness. My father works. Hitherto I work. See
I I I know I'm over time. Can I have two minutes?
>> Yeah. >> Are you okay? The scripture says
in in Ecclesiastes chapter 9, there was a little city
that was besieged by a mighty king. And there was and besiege meant it cut
off all the waterway all the waterways that led to the city which means
everybody was going to die. Nobody could get in. Nobody could get out. Nothing
could get in. Nothing could get out. No trade was happening. And it says there
was in this little city a poor wise man who by his wisdom delivered the city
from the mighty king. Go read his not you and I ain't making
this up. And then it says, "Get."
No one remembered that same poor wise man. And then I said, "Wisdom is better
than strength." Why? Because the wise poor man defeated
the wealthy king. Wisdom is better than strength. And there it says,
"The poor man's wisdom is despised." I had a woman who attended my brother's
church in Pennsylvania asked me one time, "Why do you talk about business
all the time?" And my answer was this. Because I don't want to misrepresent
Christ in the marketplace, telling people that I serve an abundant God
while I'm walking around wearing hand-me-down clothes,
driving a rattle trap car like, "Lights off this month, water off
next month." I'm talking about a God of abundance.
It's a misrepresentation, especially when God has given us
specific instructions in his word. I'm done. Father, help us to apply this
word to our lives. Help us to trust that your word is not just true, but it is
truth. May we live by it.
>> Not just feel good about it. Not just feel good hearing. Not just feel good
talking about it. But may we feel good because it brings forth fruit in our
lives. We thank you for it in the name of Yeshua. Amen. Pastor John
[Applause]