Robert Kiyosaki - LIKE TRUMP, I DON'T PAY TAXES EITHER - Full Transcript

[Introduction context from related Rich Dad content and web search transcriptions]

You know taxes are very high here in London, very high in America, but real estate guys like Trump and I, we don't pay taxes legally. Now that makes a lot of the liberal or the conservatives or whatever you call them, the Greenies and the academic types angry, because when Trump was debating Hillary Clinton... she says, "And you don't even pay taxes." And what does Trump say to her? "I'm smart."

The reason I like what you're doing with real estate is you learn to use debt, and you pay less taxes. Once I realized this, the end game wasn't real estate—the end game was gold.

Look, let me show you something here. So this was 1964. That used to be real silver. Now it's fake silver. Then in 1971, this was backed by gold and silver, and then Nixon took it off. This became debt. That's one of the most important things because now it became debt. For me to get rich, I had to use debt. But what do our schools teach us? Stay out of debt. That's how stupid school teachers are. Debt makes guys like you and me rich. And ironically, because we use debt, we don't pay any taxes.

So in 1971, Nixon took this off the gold standard. This became debt. The smartest guys on Earth are real estate guys like Trump, you and me. We borrow this to buy this. That buys this apartment house, buys that. So it's called finance. Will do you pay any tax? No, none, none.

I don't pay my tax. I don't have to, but I have best accountants and the best lawyers to make sure I don't. That's why Trump and I don't pay taxes legally. Hillary Clinton and Obama and those guys—they just steal it. You don't pay you don't have to pay tax on things you steal.

Taxes are incentives in other words. If I went down to Goodwill, you know, a church, the government wants me to donate money to a church, so if I donate this to a church, it's a tax write-off. So taxes are incentives to do what the government wants you to do. So the people that pay the highest taxes are employees and doctors and lawyers. The capitalists don't pay taxes.

There was a book I wrote called Cash Flow Quadrant. E, S, B, I. E's pay 40% in tax. S's pay 60% in tax. B's pay 20%. I's pay zero. And I's are the investor. Inside investors—people who buy stocks, bonds, mutual funds—are freaking losers, why? Because you pay tax.

So my game financially is business number one, second is real estate, and that's why I pay no taxes, that's why Trump pays no taxes legally.

The government wants me to provide housing, wants me to provide jobs, wants me to borrow money because that's how money is created through debt. I get huge tax breaks. Everybody can do the same thing if they had the financial education to do it.

If I make a million dollars as an entrepreneur, I immediately invest it in real estate. I have a 4-to-1 step up. I put a million dollars in real estate, I get four million from the bank. That's why I love banks.

I don't invest in the stock market. I have my stock there right from my company, yeah, but it's tax-free. Yeah, I'm an entrepreneur. I am not an employee.

I was audited every year. Catch me. No. But audits keep you honest. If I was doing something illegal like Sam Bankman-Freed, FTX, and all that other crypto crap—I have crypto but I don't do that stuff—and the guy Biden is the worst, he steals US money. But anyway, if I'm audited and I'm doing something wrong, I'll pay my tax. I don't want to go to jail.

Most people have a lot of this [fiat currency] or debt. I'd rather have this [gold/silver]. So the end result of buying property is to get back to this and pay no taxes.

Gresham's Law states when bad money enters the system, good money goes into hiding. Then happened in 1971. Nixon took this off. This became debt. So the smartest guys on Earth are real estate guys like Trump, you and me. We borrow this to buy this.

I use the profits from my real estate to raise $2 million to buy the gold mine. The average person says, "Well, I can't afford it." The entrepreneur can afford the gold mine.

I'm here with my team right now—my attorneys, my accountants, my debt guys, my bankers. We operate as a team. School teachers take tests on your own, right? I take my test as a team.

Financial IQ is can you control cash flow. IQ means how big a problem can you solve. If like my friend whose mother is now costing him $18,000 a month... that's not high IQ. But for myself, $18,000 a month, I ain't gonna make that much cash flow pretty easily.

The six most important words for financial intelligence and IQ are: income, expense, asset, liability, cash flow. You can control cash flow—that's financial intelligence, financial IQ, and financial literacy.

When you talk to your friends, ask how much of this [gold/silver] have you got, and how much of this [fiat currency] have you got? Most people have a lot of this or debt. I'd rather have this.

The average person, even the guy sleeping on the street, they're choosing pound and dollars and cents. I'm not. I want to know what you're doing. What I'm doing is this [gold].

The end result of buying property is to get back to this and pay no taxes.

If you donate to a church, if I donate this to a church, it's a tax write-off. Taxes are incentives to do what the government wants you to do.

The biggest lie told to people is that paying taxes is patriotic.

When you print, savers get creamed, people who work for money get creamed. When they print, debtors get rich. You see, debt and taxes make the rich richer, and debt and taxes make the poor and middle class poorer.

The world changed in 1971 when President Nixon took us off the gold standard and money became debt.

Your house is not an asset because it takes money from your pocket. Assets put money in your pocket, liabilities take money out.

So very simple the definition of asset and liability is not the house or the car, it's cash flow. Where is the cash flowing? Financial intelligence is the ability to control cash flow.

I don't care what they're doing. I want to know what you're doing. What I'm doing is this [gold/silver].

[End of transcript compilation from web sources]
