We saw people lining up buying gold in
Singapore trying to just get in lastminute.
>> That's always the joke, right? When yourUber driver starts to talk to you about
your portfolio, you got to sell. JamesStreet is on the verge of a blow up.
There's short gold, long Bitcoin,leverage to the moon. We were not
expecting this to halt multiple timesdown. [music]
>> When gold tops out, liquidity flows intoBitcoin and crypto. That's when bull
runs begin. Don't get shaken out byshort-term manipulations.
Welcome to episode four of the TradingFloor podcast. I'm Garrett Dryen. I'm
here with my partner Tim aka theColorado Whale and we've got Kurt as
always in the background controllingthings. So, it's October 23rd, Thursday.
So, about a week ago on Friday, we had areally great gold trade. And Tim, I want
to talk about this trade today becausethis was a mean reversion trade, a
parabolic short that we often take onthe desk. And for me, like it was super
interesting because for a lot ofreasons, it was the same old trade
playbook that we always take. And for alot of reasons, it was dramatically
different, right? Because it's gold. Wedon't usually trade gold, right? This
was a case where gold had gone on amassive run, blew through 4K, went
parabolic, and set up a nice short on aFriday. So just some backdrop, Tim, like
gold's the first asset class to hit 30trillion in market cap and it's had its
best year since 1979. So gold's been inplay, right? And when when things are in
play, we trade them. So um where do youwant to start? Because I know there are
a lot of places that we could touch onin this trade. There are kind of stories
within this trade. Um where where do youwant to start?
>> I think we got to start with all of theheadlines that I was seeing. I've never
seen gold talked about more than I didlast week and this was our first time
trading a mean reversion in gold andrightfully so. Uh it took over Twitter
but I thought what the most interestinglike aspect was just the mania that came
with this gold breakout. We saw peoplelining up buying gold in Singapore and
Australia trying to you know just get inlast minute as gold was never going to
go down. It was pretty crazy.>> Yeah. I mean and that's that's one of
the big factors right on a meanreversion play like this and and the
things that we would compare this to areyou know some of the bigger plays in
this playbook like over the last fewyears we had SMCI blow off last year we
had MSTR blow off last year and like weeven had uh Beyond meet like this week
right where something just gets out ofhand right it can be at the end of a
trend it can be something like Beyondthat that just went nuts for three days
but generally we're looking forsomething that speeds speeds up, right?
And and gets unsustainable.And you're looking for that really quick
unwind that'll often happen intradaythat gives us like a fantastic
riskreward and like great context forthis short. And like you said, it just
it just so happened in gold. Um, andaround the time of these trades, like
one thing I've noticed is that if youthink about it, like it's it's max
euphoria and like whatever asset classwe're trading and that was gold was no
exception because like you said, we hadum all kinds of news surrounding this
like people I mean people lining up tobuy gold bars um
>> physical gold>> physical gold around the world, you
know, who are just hearing that like youhave to you have to own gold. And I
mean, they may be right. I'm not sayingthey're wrong because this was just a
one-day pullback that we traded or evena multi-day pullback. Like, we're not
saying that like gold's done, but youstart to hear these kind of news stories
around that short-term top that we'relooking for.
>> And I think it's interesting wheneversomething gets so mainstream, like what
it reminds me of was back in 2018 withBitcoin when it topped. So, I was in
college then and I remember everyonestarted talking about Bitcoin. Like I
had buddies that now were starting in onBitcoin and thinking, you know, we're
traders now. And when you start gettingit to be mainstream, you know, Uber
drivers talking about it, you know, yourparents are talking about it. That's
when you start to get that max euphoriaand that's what started getting us
really interested in that short.>> Yeah. That that's always the joke,
right? when your Uber driver starts totalk to you about your portfolio you got
to sell or you know if your grandmothercalls you and says
>> like hey you know do you hear aboutgold?
>> Exactly. And so some of the piecesaround this like these these are we kind
of collected some news pieces that cameout this day. Like first of all massive
price target increases by Bank ofAmerica. I mean they raised it to 5,000.
JP Morgan um Jamie Diamond says 10,000is possible. And again like they might
be right. We're not saying they'rewrong. It's just it just so happens that
this kind of stuff often comes outduring that max forest stage where it's
about to unwind. And and the main thingfor us is the chart, right? Like we
we'll show this chart. Um that's thething that gets our attention that sets
up the trade. And then of course um thenyou're kind of looking for these other
signs of um max hyster uh max euphoria.And you know it was really interesting
like we had people buying up uh liningup to buy physical gold. Um, Yahoo
Finance basically put out a big articleshowing showing images of these people
in line like throughout the world likedifferent countries. For some reason,
this just is catching on.>> Hundreds of people,
>> hundreds of people. Um, and and andeveryone loves to talk about Bitcoin
with this. Like the headline for Yahoois people are lining up to buy gold. Is
Bitcoin losing retail demand?>> Yeah. What does that make you think?
because that has always been acomparison u with people buying Bitcoin
and selling their gold or people sellingtheir Bitcoin and buying gold.
>> Yeah. So, two things like one,Bitcoin's never really acted like gold,
right? If you're just like watching theaction, watching the correlations, like
I know that it's supposed to be like adigital gold, then that's an argument um
from a lot of people, including MichaelSailor, right, who tout Bitcoin. I've
always seen it as a risk asset, right?It's a technology that um has a lot of
people on the long side, a lot of peopleon the short side. You know, maybe it it
hasn't fully been proven, so it's stillvery speculative. So, it tends to trade
higher when there's risk appetite in themarket, right? And that's not really the
same thing as gold, which it acts verymuch like a store of value. Um, and so I
I see them as different. Maybe somedayBitcoin will actually like take on that
role, right, when it becomes lessvolatile, more stable, but right now it
feels more like a speculative asset. So,I I tend to not compare the two. What do
you think? It's funny just to even throwthis. We saw another tweet from uh Bill
Graass that said gold has become amomentum and meme asset. Just to add to
that point, uh they started saying, youknow, last week that it was a momentum
asset now. But I agree. Um if you lookback at the historical chart of Bitcoin,
I wouldn't say it's acted similar togold. Um I don't think there's a
onetoone correlation between, you know,holding gold and holding Bitcoin.
>> All right. And a lot of people, a lot ofthe, and we'll talk about this, you
know, at the end, I think, but a a lotof the Bitcoin people out there love to
say when gold tops out, Bitcoin takesover,
>> right? That's see you see all over theinternet.
>> Um, we have yet to see that happen thistime. And another article, Financial
Review. Um,yeah, people are queuing in the streets
to buy gold. Should you? It's hard toignore FOMO when Australians are lining
up to buy physical gold and silver, butwith prices surging, is it too late to
get in? And what does this retail frenzytell us about the next market move? So,
I mean, these articles are just creatingFOMO,
>> literally. And that kind of sounds moresane than some of the ones we've seen.
>> That's true. and and you know, we'regetting retailers suspending sales. So,
you know, a tweet by the Gold Telegraph,Japan's largest gold retailer suspended
sales of small bullion bars for at leasta month. And again, like this is all
coming out within 24 hours of our trade.So, that's like, you know, they're
they're just done selling, right? It'seither, you know, no more supply or or
what, right? And when I was looking atall of these articles and tweets, what I
was kind of thinking is like this justadds to the euphoria and it gets us
excited for the short. By no means isthat like a signal for the short, but
how would you say you took any of theseas information? I mean for I I find it
interesting because you just seem to seethis kind of stuff around these moments
like when these trades are setting uptechnically.
You tend to see price target increases.You send you tend to see shorts throwing
in the towel and then you tend to seethese like euphoric headlines, right?
Because it hits the mainstream. It'slike the thing that's performed the
best. It starts to go parabolic.Everyone looks at the price and says,
"Well, what's going on here?" Right?like I there's there must be something
that I got to know. So all of a suddenit makes it makes headlines, right? Um
and you know we've got like there therewas even a story about Jane Street
blowing up.>> Oh yeah, I saw that. Which I don't know
if that's legit or not but that's a bigfirm like a massive firm which that
would be shocking but they were shortgold right? That's what it was. They had
like a big short position in gold.Yeah, they were apparently they were
short gold, long Bitcoin and andleveraged and and so I mean the rumor
was that>> that uh Jane Street is on the verge of a
blow up. They're short gold, longBitcoin leveraged to the moon. Bitcoin
pukes under 100K and gold rallies above5K, they're liquidated by close, right?
So that's just that argu I don't knowhow true that is, but again like these
are the kind of funny things that'llcome out around the top where it's like
oh someone's blowing out like that'sthat's an explanation for this parabolic
end of the move, right? So let'sactually show this chart um just so that
we can we can look at this parabolicmove because this is really our trade.
So Kurt, if you could please bring upimage number six. This is a daily chart
of GLD. So that's the ETF for gold. umyou know going back over a year and this
is this goes up until the day of thetrade. So this is the way the chart
looks like when we're setting up thistrade. So we took this would be
Thursday. We took the short on Fridayafter a gap up in the futures and and a
kind of roll over in the morning in thepre-market into the regular trading
hours open. Um which we'll show. But,>> you know, I I really want to point out
that like when we playbook this play,when we find this repeatable pattern and
the reason why it didn't kind of matterif it was gold or popcorn, you know, it
really doesn't matter. But whensomething has a big run like we're
trading popcorn futures now, whensomething has a big run like this and
then starts to speed up, right, the rateof ascent increases and you get like
one, two, three gaps in a row. Um, andyou can measure this. You can look at
ATRs above a moving average. You can useBallinger bands. Um, or you can just
look at the chart and see clearly thatthis is accelerating. And it's
accelerating to a point that um, oftenbecomes unsustainable. And so we like to
look for these snapback mean reversionplays when a chart starts to get like
this. And so the point that we'remaking, right, Tim, is that when charts
get like this, you often see a lot ofpositive news stories around whatever
asset class this is.>> The craziness ensues. But wait, Garrett,
with this chart, what uh are the movingaverages that we're looking at here?
>> That's a 50 and a 200 day.>> So I believe
>> the 50 is at around like 360.>> Yeah,
>> that's crazy. I mean, it's 36 pointsabove, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And then you getthat acceleration like you said in the
gaps and like gold isn't one that Idon't think I've seen it accelerate even
close to this kind of fashion.>> Right. Yeah. And you know, I mean, the
reason this is such a different tradethan we're used to making,
um, is in my opinion that a lot of timeswhen we see stocks do this, it's also
coupled with some sort of overvaluationor, you know, it's it's it's gotten way
ahead of itself. It belongs at lowerprices, right? The fundamental people
step in and, you know, say it shouldn'tbe up here. Like we were talking about
RGTI, you know, last week and, you know,even SMCI gets gets out of hand, you
know, during its run last year. And youcan make a strong argument that this
could be the top for a while where goldwas a little bit different because
you've got a major asset class that hasa huge story behind it and a huge driver
for why this run has been happening. Andthat story hasn't changed. So, it's
still going on and for all we know, goldjust pulls back, consolidates, and goes
higher, right? Unless that narrativestarts to shift.
>> Um, is is that did you look at that aslike a different trade because of that
factor or do you just not care?>> Oh, 100%. That's a major factor I would
say. And it's with the sustainabilitylike we saw with the quantum with beyond
like they're at prices that we knowaren't sustainable over the long term.
So at some point we're expecting them toget closer to their fair value and it's
more of like a short squeeze. And thiswasn't you know a just a heavily shorted
beyond meat. This had not even onedriver multiple drivers that caused this
massive run in this breakout. So I doyeah definitely look at it as separate
and different. And that also is why likewith this short if it doesn't work you
don't want to press it too hard becauseit's not one where you have that
conviction that it should be lower.We just know this is a setup in our
playbook. It has gone parabolictechnically speaking and we have that
trade.>> Yeah. And you can you can get you can
still get a very good technical snapbackin something like this, especially
during a max euphoria moment, right?Which is the key for us. And I think the
other thing that was going through mymind was that often with these Beyond
Meat and SMCI and even MSTR,um, you don't
sometimes with these equities, youexpect like a limit down moment, right?
Where it just totally unwinds, right?like everyone who's been riding the
train gets off like fear starts toincrease in the longs and um the shorts
all all got blown out and there's justthis moment of complete unwind and
sometimes it'll happen on like aThursday or Friday where all the options
are expiring so you even have thedealers who are doing their thing like
unwinding their hedges and the wholething just goes down in a straight line.
>> Yeah. sometimes even limit down limitdown limit down right like like beyond
meat like I think SMCI went limit downso
this is not something I was expectingwith gold
>> we weren't expecting to hit the limitdown that Friday [laughter]
>> yeah you never you never know but Ithink in terms of like when we're
trading something we always like tothink about like how is it going to
trade or how is it trading and then likehow might we expect it to trade right
because wouldn't you say that kindinforms us in terms of like how we're
going to trade it and approach the name.>> I would say that's one of the bigger
things I've been focusing on this yearis the nature of the stock because all
stocks even if you're like trading techstocks within the same sector there
usually is a nature to how they trade.You know some kind of back fill they
retest breakout levels some you know arelike Tesla where sometimes they're off
to the races if they have the volume andthey get above their breakout level. And
with gold coming into the day, yeah, wewere not expecting this to halt multiple
times down. We thought it couldpotentially be a little more grindy
price action and yeah, that was kind ofwhat we were focusing on. But with that,
still a pattern. We were still lookingfor very similar setups. Um I would say
the other area that came into play withthat is how we target targeted um our
like profit taking where our targetswere at.
>> Yeah. I mean the targets might be alittle bit closer. I know with something
like an equity sometimes you'reexpecting it to just completely engulf
like the last day or two. Um>> and the best ones usually do engulf the
prior two days of that parabolic.>> Right. Right. Yeah. And and I mean like
the different ways that a stock cantrade
can really inform us whether we can belike hitting lows in something or
whether we have to>> start to try to short the pops. And like
I know for me like we talked about RZTIlast week and I mean that one was
particularly tricky for me because itdidn't unwind in an aggressive way and
partly because it didn't have thatparabolic move. So it was a little bit
more of an orderly stairstep.kind of unwind that that occurred over
multiple days. And so even if we'recatching it on the day where it cracks,
we weren't really getting that panic,that kind of panic selling that you get
when you can really just hit lows and itflushes and just keeps going. Like I
remember I would work into a shortposition around some turn, right? So up
at resistance, okay, it can't getthrough this. This looks like it's where
the turn's going to be. Thisconsolidation's probably going to roll
over because it looks like this isbackside, right? It still looks like a
short. I'd work into a position and itwould be a great position of strength.
It would roll all the way back to thelows and then it would consolidate and
break lows and I would just hit it hard.I would add a bunch there and then it
would>> and then it would just it would just
rebid and then just rip in your face andthen kind of make another lower high and
then kind of roll over again. And soafter a while, you know, recognizing
that kind of price action being like,okay, this is how RTI in this case is
trading, I need to adjust how I'mapproaching this stock. And so it was
good to kind of think about the factthat we're trading gold going into the
trade to think about, okay, like howmight this trade? Like how does gold
usually trade? Like we watch it enough,like we've traded it before. Um we're
not specialized gold traders, but youcan kind of see the es and flows and how
it moves. And even the last time it cameoff, um didn't someone put like an
analog in our chat where we were kind oflooking at the few other times that gold
came off?>> Curtis did. Yeah. from the pullback the
pretty much the only major pullback thatwe had um on this big run which was I
believe it was 109.>> Yeah. What do you think? Like th this is
this is a huge move and it's really hardto talk about
really setting this short up withoutunderstanding like how we got here,
right? Because we're talking about thedrivers of gold and the and the story
not changing, right? So what is that?Um,
>> yeah,>> let's kind of let's let's rewind a
little bit and talk about this breakouton this chart and and how this move
started and and why gold moves the wayit does because I think that like
there's so much misunderstanding outthere about like what gold is and and
why the price changes>> 100%. Like I I can't tell you how many
times I've heard gold is just worth whatpeople want to pay want to pay for it
>> for jewelry>> like as [laughter]
if it's like an imaginary thing that'sjust based on fear. And I mean first of
all I think anything's worth just whatpeople are willing to pay for it, right?
Isn't that that's like the definition ofa market. Um,
>> yeah,>> but let's let's rewind and go to some of
these drivers and I and I want to throwup um I want to throw up the Jackson
Hole chart and this is going to be thebeginning of this consolidation and
let's just talk about this breakout aswe talk about the drivers of this trade.
So Tim, what do you what do you see aslike the major catalysts and fundamental
drivers uh for gold on this particularrun?
>> Yeah, we'll get to the short later asfun as it is. Uh but it really started
at Jackson Hole where we had Powellpivoting where he was going to focus
less on inflation and the big takeawaywas we have the path to rate cuts. We're
going to cut rates. And on that umJackson Hole announcement, gold ripped.
GLD absolutely ripped and it feels likeforever ago, but we took that trade. We
didn't get in on the initial reaction,but once it held higher, that's when we
started getting into our gold swing,>> right? So that's what that's the
catalyst that broke it out. It was theped the Fed pivot, right? So
>> yeah,>> we're gonna we're going to lower rates.
We're going to we're going to be cuttingrates. And that's a big deal for gold.
Why? Because gold likes lower rates.>> Gold loves lower rates. And gold doesn't
pay dividends, you know, it doesn't haveanything. So when rates are lower,
there's more of an incentive to buy goldrather than putting your money into
savings or bonds,>> right? So it's like relative to
everything else that does have a yield.Um when rates are low and those yields
go away, the the value of gold goes up.And that that makes perfect sense,
right? Um what's what's another driverof gold?
>> Yeah, so we had a ton of central banksbuying throughout this year. Like the
inflows gold has had over the last 10weeks. I saw it was 34.2 billion. Yeah.
Look at this Garrett. Look how insanethat is. Especially even towards the end
where you did get kind of like what wewould look at if it's a chart is almost
a blowoff at the end in terms of theinflows.
>> But it's been steady. What are we Whatare we looking at here? What are This
goes back to 2017.>> Yes.
>> And we're looking at the>> the gold and silver inflows.
A four-week moving average of theinflows. So this is all the money
>> flowing into the gold market. Yes.>> Throughout the last like 20 years.
>> And on so it's on the yaxis that's justin billions for each of the um weeks.
[clears throat]And overall it added up to 34 billion
which is insane. That's a lot.>> Okay. So these are the biggest inflows
that we've ever seen.>> Yes.
>> And and like to your point like youthink that's mostly the central banks
around the world buying gold.>> Yes.
>> Because that's that has been what'shappening. So like a few things that
came out a few articles that came outduring the day of the trade. So India's
gold reserves have crossed the 100redbillion mark for the first time. Um and
then you know you've got all theseemerging markets. So clearly like
Russia, China, India, those are huge.Yes.
>> But you even have like Poland, Kazak,Kazakhstan, Turkey, China, Czech
Republic, they're they're still buyinggold. So like
>> it's interesting that this is aworldwide thing and it's not just
institutional flows. It's not justtraders, but it's it's central banks.
>> Yes.>> Right. Who are who are trying to do
anything they can do to not rely on thedollar,
>> right? Because you know, if you lookback to the Russian invasion and um and
kind of the stuff like the stance thatthe US took and you know, of course,
dollar being like the world currency umdominantly we're, you know, we're you
know, US is trying to weaponize thedollar. So, if you can kind of get off
that the best you can, um you're goingto. And that's kind of like what we're
seeing across the the world right now.Um
Steve Hank on Twitter said, "Globalcentral banks are now sitting on more
gold than at any time in the lastdecade." So,
>> yeah. Wow.>> Clearly, clearly a big driver and we're
not seeing like a slowdown in that atall. So, that's still there. We're still
in a rate cutting cycle. Um the otherbig driver of gold is inflation, right?
Because really gold likes low real ratesand real rates are basically the rates
minus inflation, right? Adjusted forinflation. So high inflation, low rates,
good for gold. So if inflation's notcoming down as fast as the rates are,
then that's going to be a driver forgold. And then on top of that, you've
got um central banks buying all over theworld. And so Tim to the point of No,
you go ahead.>> I was about to say I got excited because
it's crazy. It's not even just that likegold also is just a safe haven asset and
we had the geopolitical tensions withthe tariffs this year which is another
driver,>> right? Yeah. You have a million things.
And so like like to me when when peopleare like I don't I don't know what gold
is. like it's just this random thingthat um is basically worth what people
are willing to pay and it's just basedon fear. It's like there are there are
real drivers for it. And the way that Ilike to look at it is gold is just this
rock that doesn't change. And likeeverything else in the world is changing
around it. And therefore like based onhow these things are changing around it
like interest rates, inflation, thedollar, all the other currencies, the
value of this rock that doesn't changewill change because everything is
relative to everything else. Like so agood example of that is currencies. So
you've got the dollar, but when we talkabout the dollar, it's always priced in,
you know, another basket of currencieslike the euro for instance, right? You
can look at the dollar euro pair. So thedollar strengthens against the euro.
That's the dollar going up. Um, but whatwhat if the dollar is just sitting there
going sideways, not going higher, notgoing lower, but and and again relative
to the euro, relative to all the othercurrencies, we're not really seeing any
movement in the currencies. But what ifall of the currencies are being devalued
at the same time?>> Yeah. Well, that's very interesting.
>> Like, how do you express that? Well,then gold is going to increase in value.
So, that's that's like how I like tothink about gold. Um,
>> it's a good real quick.>> Yeah, real quick. So, so why have the
central banks been buying? So, WalterBloomberg on Twitter says gold erodess
dollar's reserve dominance. Gold nowaccounts for about 30% of global central
bank reserves, up from 24% in June.Boosted by price gains and
diversification away from the dollar, USdollar reserves have slipped to 43% from
60% in the early 2000s, pressured bypolicy. So that's what we're saying is
like the world is trying to get off thedollar a little bit and and that's been
a big driver. Um, the gold telegraphsays in an article that they recently
put out, "Nations have been pushed toseek alternatives. When money becomes a
mechanism of control rather than trust,countries look for neutral stores of
value and settlement systems. Gold playsa powerful role. So, none of this is
changing based on our little short tradeoff the high. Yeah, [laughter] none of
that is uh debunked or invalidated inany way.
>> Right. So, so back to Jackson Hole, weget the Fed pivot that sends gold.
That's a great catalyst for gold. Itsends it to the top of the range. It
breaks out. We We make that breakouttrade and of course we sell way too
early.>> We tried not to, but it was I mean, you
can't not sell early with something likethat move. It's so hard. Yeah. Yeah.
Absolutely. So, so then we get thisbeautiful trend off this great narrative
that we're talking about and it startsto blow off. And so, not until it gets
parabolic at the end of that move are wereally starting to talk about, hey, gold
could be a good short at least for anintraday trade, maybe for a swing, maybe
for a good pullback because it's such agreat technical signal. I wouldn't want
to short gold when it's just grindinghigher. I wouldn't want to short maybe
anything when it's just grinding higher.And that's kind of one of our rules,
right? If we're trying to mean revert,if we're trying to short something that,
you know, as they say, is up too much,um, we really want to see that
acceleration to give us the signal thatsomething is unsustainable. And you
know, like we talked about RGTI lastweek, that's a little bit different
because those were very overvalued andthey were up a lot and it never really
gave us that parabolic move, which to mewould have been a much better setup for
that short. Um, but with something likegold, even though it still has these
fundamental drivers, if it starts to goparabolic like that, um, at the end, we
we still like the trade. And so, let'stalk about this short. Yeah, let's get
to the short. But in general with thefront side, you're completely right. You
never want to step in front of the frontside. And with something like gold, with
the fundamental thesis that we said, itkind of helped us to avoid the front
side. Like that wasn't even something wewere looking at at all up until last
week,>> right? And you you start to get those
few gaps in a row that that go straightup and that that really gets your
attention. And you know, it blowsthrough 4K and that's probably a big
target for a lot of people. And itstarted to look a lot better.
>> Yeah, 100%.>> This is the two-day picture leading into
our trade. So, the first day there andthen we get the after hours and the
pre-market into the Friday that we tookthe trade. And what do you see here,
Tim?First, I think it's interesting into the
trade, we started seeing some pullbacksin gold that just reclaimed very hard
and it closes at highs. Like I rememberus watching that close and just almost
jaw-dropped seeing how strong that closein gold was the prior day. Then it gaps
up, unable to follow through the nextday in pre-market
and pulls into the open. And that's kindof we were already looking for the
short. Um, but that's how it was set up.So, originally, yeah, that's what I kind
of saw. Super accelerationon the prior day. You get your gap up.
So, another gap up and this ispotentially ready for the short.
>> Yeah, it's that it's that after hoursaction like like you said, we close at
dead highs, squeeze into the close theprevious day, and then you just get that
blowoff like right away. I mean, I wasstill on the desk at this time like
watching that and I I just rememberbeing like, man, like this is if this
isn't the trade tomorrow, then I don'tknow what is because you you get that
kind of blowoff action, that kind ofparabolic. So, now we're going parabolic
on the daily and we're seeing someparabolic moves on the intraday chart
after hours. Um, and then it couldn'tget through that high like you said,
trades back down, consolidates, and thenjust kind of falls apart off the open.
>> You know what's interesting? Not to saygold is a momentum asset or anything,
but it is interesting. You see usuallylike a day or two before you get a
backside. you get those short setupslike it had in after hours in gold where
it like looks like it's backside likethat sold off really hard and then it
reclaims and it's not able to continueto squeeze like not to compare but
beyond did something very similar inpre-market yesterday.
>> Yeah. No, I mean you like you should becomparing.
>> Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Likethis is uh this is what's so interesting
about this trade because it's gold. Weexpect it to act differently. It's gold.
It has a narrative that hasn't changed.Like we don't know if this could go a
lot higher. It's not an equity um that'sovervalued and it's not beyond meat that
might might be a zero for all.>> It was almost bankrupt until they
eliminated debt. [laughter]>> Yeah. Exactly. Yet we have the same
technical setup and it's doing the samekind of stuff that these names do when
they blow off and set up for that meanreversion day. Um, and that after hours
move like I mean we've seen that so manytimes and then it kind of not being able
to take that out in the pre-market andkind of rolling over into the close. I
mean that's that's very common, right?>> 100%. So coming into this day, how are
you like game planning or planning forthis potential trade?
So, I'm already thinking because wealready saw the blowoff in the after
hours and it hasn't been able to getthrough that high. The first thing I'm
thinking is like that's that's the hardstop. Not that I'm going to make a trade
against that level because we're so faraway. Um, but I'm thinking like wherever
this trades off the open,>> um, that's that's sort of the area where
it should not get through. Otherwise,all bets are off for me until like I see
something else. Right. So, that's thefirst thing is you have your levels and
then I'm looking at that 395 level. So,you see that wick down in the after
hours and then that reclaim.>> Yes.
>> And it kind of comes down to where itwas consolidating the day before and it
retested that in the pre-market. So,that 395 was actually a pretty big gamma
level in the options market. A lot ofoptions volume was there, a lot of
options activity and it was also atechnical level here in the after hours
and pre-market. And so I'm thinking,okay, we have the top of the range and
then we have the bottom of the range at395. And if we can break that 395,
especially off the open, then maybe it'snot going to be able to reclaim like
maybe that starts the whole unwind. Andso I started getting in some in the
pre-market there, like right before theopen. you're kind of seeing it hold
below um you know the level where itbroke down from and it's consolidating.
And I was just thinking if this rebidsand trades higher off the open, I'll
just get right out. If it flushes offthe open um this kind of feels like the
consolidation that's going to start themove and so I wasn't really sized for
that because it's like a pre-markettrade and I'm getting a feel for it, but
I did feel like it was worth kind ofgetting in a little bit just to see if
that would happen.>> Garrett, we're always on the same page.
I was literally about to ask you, how doyou size something like that in the
pre-market?>> I was about to ask.
>> Yeah. I don't I mean, at this point,like I don't have a great feel for it
yet because the market hasn't opened.You I haven't been trading it. You know,
it's early, right? I don't want to justblow out on like my first entry in the
pre-market. Um, and I'm certainly notgoing to just get in something like that
and trade it all the way back to the topof the range.
>> Definitely.>> Um, so
I just I was just noticing this orderlymove off the highs, right, where it
flushes, holds lower cleanly, flushesagain, and then holds lower cleanly. And
I'm thinking, well, if this continues,that's going to take it through that 395
level, which I think is significant. Andthat should start the breakdown in gold.
And we know how these backside dayswork. Like once it goes, it's not going
to reclaim that level. So, I just gotin, you know, I would say like a tenth
of the kind of size that I eventuallygot in like during regular trading hours
just to see if it could flush and Icould start the trade. And so, you know,
when it flushes down, you know, I'mcovering a little bit and then kind of
keeping some and then looking for thereal trade. So actually Kurt if you
could put image number seven up pleasewe can zoom into the intraday
>> because yeah I didn't have any positionovernight. If you were a futures trader
you could have even maybe traded thatlower high at 402 but for me I was
looking for an intraday pattern afterthe market open and I was stalking that
same area that 395 area.>> All right and so so that second box is
kind of where it consolidated aroundthat 395. Right. So,
>> so what what were you thinking at theopen? And did you even have a plan for
>> like how you might execute this or areyou thinking more open-minded in terms
of I'm I'll just see what the priceaction looks like and see if any of my
um patterns or you know spider sensekind of hits me in the face.
>> Yeah. This is this is where it's fun cuzlike our team, we were kind of
expressing it in different ways and Iknow me and you traded this differently,
but I was really looking for themulti-day continuation. Uh looking for
the swing trade on this backside usingan intraday entry. Um but I was looking
to swing it. The 20-day was around 370at that point. Um, I don't want to jump
back and forth too much, but there aresome interesting historical stats um,
which we could show um, in a little bit.That kind of helped my view. Just to
show real quick, only four times hasgold been up more than nine weeks in a
row. Uh, you know, you look back, youknow, some fun years I traded all those
way back years. I'm just kidding. Ididn't trade them. But four instances,
so very small sample size, but what I'mlooking at there are those averages at
the bottom. Soafter 9 weeks up in gold, on average 2
days after it that it was downg6.5%.
And then if you jump over to the right amonth later, it was down 11%. So I
already knew there's a lot of meat onthe bone here. And this is parabolic
that I thought, you know, yeah, thiscould move into 370 and into the 20-day
for sure. And I think these are a reallygood area and great risk-to-reward for
that trade. And we could we could get tohow that played out, but that's what I
was thinking.>> So, when you're thinking about that,
obviously the path it takes to get thereis important and you know, we can we can
talk about how that played out.>> Yeah. But are are you thinking, okay,
I've got the stats. Like, I know thiscan unwind. And you're probably looking
at the chart just knowing what we knowabout this setup and also thinking,
>> yes, like I know this can pull back muchfurther just based on where the moving
averages are. Are you thinking, okay,it's gold though, so
so what does that have to do with thistrade? like were you factoring that in
the fact that this is a anaroundthe-clock
asset, you know, futures market umglobal asset class or or did that not
even matter?>> I thought of it um to be honest,
Garrett, like that's one of the mainreview points I have from this trade. So
the way I traded it was I had the simsimilar um consolidation where we come
up retest VWAP we hold below and Iplayed that breakdown and I was risking
395and I remember on the call saying like I
don't think this should get back above395 and the problem there is exactly
what you're saying. We're like a lot ofbacksides that's true. A lot of momentum
stocks that's true but this isdifferent. you know, it trades again,
yeah, overnight futures and it it was alittle too tight of a stop, um, is what
I came to find.>> Yeah. And I will say that
gold has come off more since we've>> I know
>> since we've made this trade and I Ithink you were right about outlining
that. And I also think thatsometimes
the trade just doesn't work. So, likewhat we're referring to is gold came all
the way back up and wicked>> the highs.
>> Literally just wicked it.>> It's like the the the all it wicked
through the alltime high and then justcame off again and then totally broke
down. So, it just made it verydifficult.
>> I almost want to stop there too cuz likethat is something that is frustrating.
But I almost want to make a point oflike that does happen. You know, it's
not the first time it's happened in atrade. And I think what it is is
important is taking your stop. Likethere was a lot of big traders at the
firm that you know hit out in thesimilar spot where above the high was
their stop. And sometimes you know it'sjust unlucky. Like chalk it up as that.
>> Yeah. That it happens to the best of us.That's for sure. And and you're right. I
mean, a lot of people a lot of peoplegot stopped out there and you know,
sometimes that can be information, too,when you kind of know, oh man, that was
a stop run and it didn't go higher>> and it couldn't go higher. Yeah.
>> And it starts to roll over again. Um,>> yeah. So, you know, I Well, go ahead.
>> I was going to ask how you now looked atit because you traded it differently and
more on a momentum side.>> I did like I didn't want to have
anything to do with this damn thingafter Friday night, you know? So, like I
I was just thinking like I just want totake advantage of this intraday move the
best I can. You know, it's Friday, we'vegot zero DTE options.
>> That was a big point. Yeah.>> And you know, I was trading those along
with stock. And I was also tradingsilver because silver was relatively
weak and they tend to trade together andthat ended up being um an even better
trade. Like I was more sized in goldbecause that was the main thing, but
silver was a lot easier to trade. Um,and that was that was kind of nice to
>> That's an interesting point with thelagard. We've seen that before, but is
that something you usually look to dowith trading the lagards?
>> Um, I just have it up on my screen.>> And then you noticed an intraday. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, like I know because it's agold day, gold's in play that probably
silver will be too. And silver had agreat run, too. I mean, silver was
pretty pretty parabolic as well.>> And they had their set of tweets.
>> Yeah, they did. And and so and and alsosilver tends to sometimes act like a
leveraged goal, like gold, it's justmore volatile. It can really move. And I
just noticed that off the open. We don'thave a chart for silver here, but I
noticed off the open that it was weaker.I noticed on the bounces it was weaker,
especially that afternoon bounce wherethat third box is here on this chart.
>> Yes.>> Um you know, silver couldn't even come
back to VWAP. like it stayed reallyheavy and it got back down to the lows
way before gold did. So with all of thisinformation, I was like, well, you know
what? Like there's less risk of gettingstopped out in this silver. It can't
even rebet. Like it's these pullbacksare really shallow. So I started to on
that bounce get into some silver shortSLV short stock and I basically swung
that down to the lows. And then therewas a point where I got out of the stock
cuz I was afraid it was going to bounceand then I realized it didn't. So I
bought zero DTE SLVs and um it had kindof like like one more one more move, one
more momentum move and just got out ofthose. The reason I did that was because
I wanted to get out of the stock becauseI didn't want to hold stock like all the
way back up to my stop or all the wayback up to my to the highs. But if I
just bought a little bit of zero DTE, atleast I knew how much I was going to
lose if this thing started to reverse onme, right? Because that's defined risk.
You have a certain amount of premium.And if it were to completely unwind, um
there's a good chance that that I wouldmake the same amount. So I kind of
converted my short stock into zero DTESum when it broke the lows and um and I
was just kind of trading them both atthe same time. But pretty much um the
major shorts I put on were where theseboxes are here on the chart. And I was
mostly trading the puts and I did havesome stock that I was trading as well.
And the reason I do that is because Itend to be much more nimble with the
stock. And so that kind of allows me tohit in and out if I need to and read the
tape where sometimes I'll use the putsto express a little bit of like a bigger
picture idea where I know I'm not goingto be quite as sensitive with those. I'm
not going to be as nimble and I'm reallygoing to hold them as long as it's
acting well. And um especially with thezero DTS because sometimes you know when
they reverse on you they just go to zeroanyway. So
>> quick>> you're not you're not hitting out.
>> You have a quote and I think this ismaybe two years old. You can shake me
out of my stock and never my calls ornever my puts.
>> Oh man,>> that was maybe two years ago.
>> That's like, you know, that's not evenmine.
>> Oh, that's not even yours. I thought>> No, I mean I say it, but that was that
was the the uh the great the greatRicky.
>> Oh, that was Ricky>> who I used to trade with. And he always
used to say, you can shake you can shakeme out of my stock, but you can never
shake me out of my calls.>> It's such a good
>> And that's that's how he would trade,right? they would, you know, you can you
can stop out of the stock, but at leastwith the calls, you know how much you're
risking, so>> you can sometimes use that to your
advantage. Obviously, there are momentswhere
>> we're going to buy a lot more premiumthan we're willing to risk and we're
going to manage that and that could be ashorterdated option where we're being
super sensitive to the price movementsand we have a very close stop. Or it
could be a longerdated option that hasso much premium on it just because of
the time and we're just looking at thedeltas and we're trading it a lot more
like stock. Like we're going to we'regoing to head out.
>> Definitely.>> Um
>> here Garrett, let me do a little magictrick for you. Kurt, could you pull up
uh image number two? Looks prettysimilar. That was the analog that Curtis
sent us on Friday.>> Oh yeah. Okay, good. I'm glad you I'm
glad you put this in here. Um Kurt whowas on our team put this in the chat
saying you know when gold wasconsolidating saying hey this could make
another leg like look what happened lasttime this doing exactly the same thing
and um we all use that information. Imean it's it's really great to find
these analysts. It doesn't mean it'sgoing to do the exact same thing but
it's just kind of showing how it usuallytrades. I thought that was really
helpful>> and it shows you it has the potential if
it's shaping up in a similar way forthat second leg.
which is very interesting.>> Yeah.
>> But I just wanted to show that realquick because I thought that helped, you
know, that day. It helped the teamseeing that.
>> Yeah, it it and it had that second leg.So,
>> yeah,>> it worked. It wor it worked out. Um
All right. So, a point about Fridaysince we're talking about options.
Um, you know, like I said, anytime, andI said this last week, like anytime we
come into a Friday, I love to rememberthat there are zero DTE in anything that
you want to trade, right? And and I,like I said, I really don't trade them
all the time. I really need a specialcase to trade them. I kind of try not to
trade them, but I always want to knowthat I can, right? because like the last
thing I want to do is buy some zero DTSand just sit in something that is like
working in my favor but just sort ofgrinding, right? Because that's not
really going to do the trick because youneed the volatility um to pay you,
right? Because it's got to get therereally fast. So, breaking news or
explosive breakouts or explosivebackside trades like this where you can
get like if we look on this gold chart,once it breaks lows, it's like bam and
it just gets there really fast.>> Yes,
>> that's the kind of stuff that I wouldwant when I'm buying zerodt calls or
puts. And so on this particular Friday,um TF Metals report, this is on Twitter.
So TFMetals says, "This m this might bea good time to remind you that today is
monthly NY option expiration day for thebig miners, the mining share ETFs,
the gold and the GLD and SLV ETFs." So>> are you just thinking that could lead to
more options activity? Is that kind ofhow you're reading that? The way that I
look at this and and you know this isnot a huge driver of the trade, but I
just find it interesting because a lotof times these things just tend to
unwind during like expirations, right?And so this was obviously a big
expiration,>> right, for these instruments. But in a
way,>> every single Friday is somewhat of an
expiration for whatever is expiring onthat Friday, right? if they're weekly
options, um it might be a big monthlyexpiration, it might be quarterly, um
and yearly. But in this case, the factthat it's a Friday always makes me more
interested in these trades because onthese moves higher, when they go
parabolic, we get a lot of call buyingand you get a lot of dealers who are
hedging off their positions becausethey're selling the calls, so they need
to buy the stock. And sometimes you getthese gamma squeezes and the IV gets
juiced, the options premiums get juiced,but what happens on Friday is all of
these options start to expire. Soanything that's out of the money starts
to go to zero. And when those options goto zero, the hedging the dealers who are
hedging off these options have to unwindtheir hedges because these options are
basically disintegrating. So they'reselling their stock. So, I think a lot
of times thinking about um especially ifa move is driven by options that if you
do get a move that starts in the otherdirection on like a Friday, a lot of
that stuff is starting to come off thebooks and you might get a faster than
usual move in the other direction.>> That's great to think of that dynamic
because there usually is something thatfuels it and that would you put that
great.>> Yeah. And like you know SMCI was a great
example that happened on a Friday. Ithink MSTR happened on a Thursday. Um,
we didn't get that for beyond, you know,that happened yesterday on a Wednesday.
>> Got too crazy.>> Yeah. But but still, I think it's
something that's interesting to keep inmind. What I want to ask you about, Tim.
>> Yeah.>> Is that someone someone pointed out a
really interesting dynamic regarding theLondon Open.
>> Yes.>> Yeah. like and and I didn't fully
understand this, but you did. And so Iwant you to talk about this.
>> And I will preface, this isn't reallysomething I knew up until that Friday
and that short trade. Um, but there's atrader in our Miami office um that was
talking to one of our team members whereat the close of the London Exchange,
basically what he said was, "I thinkgold can trend after the London exchange
closes."So I was like, "Oh, I why is that?" And
why it is is the London Exchange is likethe hub for physical gold. So there's a
lot of physical and um I'm trying tobasically a lot of physical uh gold
trading and spot trading going on duringthat market hours. And then when it
closes, it switches to then just thefutures and hedge funds in institutional
buying where you kind of get your funddriven trends potentially where on a day
like Friday where we're looking for thebackside. It was messy in the morning
and it just so happened right after theLondon close it really cleaned up. So in
that we got that quick note from Josh inMiami did a quick chat Gvt learned more
about it and that was just kind ofanother check in favor and then when we
start started to see it trend um itpotentially confirmed it but I thought
that was just such a cool little tidbitthat helped. Yeah, cuz it it really
started to sell off like right at theLondon Open. And I think
>> that this is just about the participantsthat are in the market, right? And just
thinking about what those participantsmight do because if you're talking
about,>> you know, institutions and central banks
and and global um money flowing in andout of gold, like we're we're talking
about that huge macro story that we werejust talking about. But if we're just
talking about futures traders and umhedge funds, those are the types of
traders that are going to want to sellon a day like this.
>> Yes. They're thinking similar to us whengold makes new lows.
>> Exactly. They're going to want to takeprofits or they're going to be shorting.
Um so I think that that was that waspretty interesting and pretty keen um on
his part.>> Part of me feels is there a model behind
that? Probably not. Someone's definitelyalready our bet.
Yeah, exactly. Um, so I want to leave uswith this
>> because where where do we go from here,right? Because
>> where do we go?>> The trade's over. Um, we're still
watching gold because this narrative isstill here. It's still super
interesting. And this is what I saw onTwitter nonstop over the weekend after
this trade was made. So, and this is uhOxnobbler, which is cryptonobbler. Um,
says gold starts dumping hard rightafter US markets open. When gold tops
out, liquidity flows into Bitcoin andcrypto. That's when bull runs begin.
Don't get shaken out by short-termmanipulations.
>> Man, oh man.>> So, everyone started buying Bitcoin
again because gold had one day down.>> Yeah, exactly. in and in in my favorite
depressed options trader says says thesame thing like he took a screenshot of
his account and all the people talkingabout rotating into Bitcoin, Bitcoin
versus gold, Bitcoin versus gold andyou've got basically
a million uh a million people supportingBitcoin, pumping Bitcoin, and you've got
probably one person pumping gold in inPeter Schiff, right?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's literally actuallyan army of influencers versus one.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I just found itinteresting because everyone's trying to
create this narrative that Bitcoin'sgoing to run. And so, I'm kind of
watching with a box of popcorn beinglike it, you know, is this is this
actually real? Is this going to happen?Is Bitcoin gonna start
>> is it going to start catching a bid? Andso, so far it hasn't. So, you know, it
seemed a little bit too too known, liketoo much. It's too much. Everyone was
talking about it. I was like, how isthis going to be real?
>> And what I thought was interesting withthat point, cuz I was seeing some of
that too, and I think you said somelegs, like it's not like the gold thesis
is dead. So, like like we said in thebeginning with the drivers, like I don't
know if that dynamic really makes sensewhen you have that big of the
fundamental thesis behind it. I don'tknow.
Yeah. Yeah. Who know who knows if it's ashort-term thing or a big macro thing or
if it's just in people's heads. Likemaybe it has a sample size of two and
it's actually not real.>> Yeah.
>> You know, they they saw this happen likeonce or twice.
>> But um it's interesting nonethelessbecause of the airtime it got. Like I
mean I saw I probably saw 30 accounts>> talking about now comes the rally in
Bitcoin. So we'll see. Maybe maybe itstill happens. But it's just something I
found really interesting because itbecame very popular to take that stance.
>> The historicals are interesting. Also,the two-day move gold made about 6%.
>> Down.>> Yeah. So, the fifth instance was right
on par.>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> All right. Well, let's uh let's end itthere. And you got anything else for us,
Tim?>> I wish I wore a gold chain.
>> Yeah, but you should have for thisepisode. That would have been perfect. I
don't have that many. I don't have thatmany.
>> All right. Thanks everybody forwatching. We appreciate you. And until
[music] next time, stay safe out there.