up to 80 to 90% of Americans their
bodies are failing there. How did we
create a society where being sick is the
new norm?
>> Uh look, if you look if you look at
certain serious I think it's like Froot
Loops and stuff like that.
>> Yeah. All that stuff. Not I don't
advocate for any of that stuff. Like
that's just like having dog food for
breakfast, right? That's what I
[laughter] like all the time. It's like
>> What have you learned about how
healthcare they are designed to keep
people coming back to them to where
maybe they alleviate symptoms but not
totally addressing those cures? I mean,
when you look at it, either they're
really blind or they're really evil.
>> What's a belief that you have about
medicine that would get you laughed out
of like a [music] traditional health
conference?
>> That your body is designed to only
consume [music] things that
>> What are the tests that every American
should try to get in their life to
really get a full picture [music] of
their health?
>> No questions asked. They're written. I'm
23 [music] right now. My goal is to live
to 100 years old. If I were to be honest
with you, I think if I continue my
current lifestyle habits, I'd maybe make
it to 75 because I I sleep like I travel
all the time. I don't eat great. If you
were to instill five things in me right
now to make sure that I live from 23 to
100 years old, what would you do? Ready?
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we have an incredible
guest with us today. your celebrity's
favorite doctor, the legendary Dr. D,
one of the pioneers of biohacking, the
healthcare mogul. Man, it's great to be
here with you in Miami today, man.
>> Thank you for
appreciate you guys.
>> Where where I want to start the
conversation today, and we're going to
get into your history and everything, is
that, you know, we hear statistics that
up to 80 to 90% of Americans are
metabolically sick. Meaning, even if
they don't necessarily feel that they're
sick, their bodies are failing them. How
did we create a society where being sick
is the new norm? Well, um, quite simple,
man. Like, we're we're really getting
seduced by wrong technologies. That's
like, if I have to leave it in one
sentence, it's like all these crazy
technologies that are coming out, um,
you know, the 1970s with the pesticides
and then the GMOs and then, you know, 3D
printing food. Like, sometimes you
you're eating stuff and you don't know.
It's like, is this chicken like, you
know, you could 3D print salmon now, for
example. uh vertical farming like a
building could be like you know grow
tomatoes and vegetables and it's like
wait hold on like what are we doing you
know so all those toxins coming into
play into our bodies we're not prepared
to handle that to tell you the truth we
are doing pretty freaking well for the
amount of crap that we get hit with
every day to tell you the truth honestly
if you really get into it and start to
see some of the stuff that I look at
like uh like epigenetics imprinttome
like we could talk about that stuff it's
pretty crazy. It's like, wow, humans not
not too shabby. We're doing pretty good.
So, short answer, wrong technologies
bringing in too many toxins into our
environment. And then it's not that I
actually said this in our first
interview. It's not that the fish are
sick, it's the fish tank that's getting
really dirty and the fish the fish are
getting sick.
>> Well, I think I think you it's something
to do with America, right? Because you
could go over to Europe and eat the same
food that you eat in America, but you're
not going to get fat. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Whereas like in America, you could eat,
you know, just plain white bread and you
you could get sick from it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, look, if you look at um
[snorts]
>> uh I'm trying to remember the brands of
the cereals, but if you look at cereals,
uh I can't remember the brand right now,
but if you look at certain cereals, I
think it's like Froot Loops and stuff
like that. Kelloggs.
>> Yeah. All that stuff. Not I don't
advocate for any of that stuff. Like
that's just like having dog food for
breakfast. All right. That's what
[laughter]
 I all the time. It's like go
pour your dog's food and then go I mean
just there's an anal. It's like, bro,
it's not real food, man. But you get
desensitized to this stuff, right? It's
heart healthy, whatever. But anyways,
but you still, you look at the, you
know, what's allowed there and what's
allowed here. There's a big difference.
You see what I'm saying? The chemicals
that, you know, Skittles in in Europe,
if I'm not mistaken, like titanium
dioxide's not allowed in there. You're
like, what the hell is that? It sounds
like some construction, you know,
something like crazy chemical. And it
is. And, uh, Skittles got sued here for
that, right? And uh by the way, it's
inside Sententrum or it was Sententrum,
you know, America's family vitamin. Same
thing that's inside the chemical and
Skittles that got sued, you know, not
allowed in Europe. So you see, like
there's a whole list of things that
aren't allowed there that are allowed
here. And to tell you the truth, the
statistics, the health statistics are
not good in Europe either. And so I'm
not saying like, oh, Europe's great. No,
Europe is like gets a D+. America gets a
F minus. You know what I'm saying? Think
of it that way.
>> So, I'm I'm curious though, how did you
kind of go down this route? Because you
were studying traditional medicine and
then you were dealing with an illness
which led you to go down the the kind of
the biohacking route. So, at what point
did you realize that the system that was
kind of designed to heal you wasn't
actually going to be the same system
that was going to save you?
>> All right. So, two two things happened
in parallel. It was my career and how I
was feeling. So, like if you feel bad,
right, that motivates you to really want
to figure things out, right? Um, so I I
finished medical school and then I went
to Cleveland Clinic, the one here in
Florida, to do research and um, man and
I I was in uh doing research in the
Metabolic Institute and I'm seeing like
these 1,000 lb patients come in like I
saw one,000 lb patient, but like 800 lb,
900 lb and that that
moves you a little bit when you see
these people like the just the width of
that person [laughter] laying down. It's
like no, it's it's like crazy. It's like
I mean it's it's it's [laughter]
um you know I want to be sensitive to
the topic but it's just like the first
time I saw one of those patients and I'm
like and they they're around. We just
don't see them obviously they're
morbidly obese and you know I'm seeing
this and I'm like
America, you know, it's like it's bad.
And then one day I remember this 1,000
lb patient came in
um um and the guy dies in surgery. And
then I remember this um I was a
researcher. So we're in this research
meeting, the head the head um the head
doctors there [snorts] and uh he picks
up the phone
and uh he's like, "Oh, I don't know what
to do." He's like, "I don't know. You
guys figure it out. Chop them up." Hangs
up the phone. I'm like, "What do you
say?" We all looked at each other like,
"Chop them up." You know, made a joke
out of that. And you know, not not
knocking on doctors in the hospital.
sometimes you can get really
desensitized from doing the same thing
over and over and over and over.
[snorts] And um I'm like, what did this
guy just say? Um and basically the guy
didn't fit in a coffin. Didn't fit in
whatever the machine or however the
thing is to cremate people. I have no
clue how that works. And then he kind of
said, I don't know, chop them up. That
was I don't think they I didn't follow
up, but we all just looked at at you
know at the guy. And then meanwhile, I
had been proposing research on fasting
completely getting shut down all the
time. No, no research on fasting, this
and this and that. So, I'm like and then
I'm also going to like I'm participating
in some of these meetings with the top
metabolic docs in the country from top
institutions and I'm watching them drink
Coca-Cola, eat hamburgers while
discussing like the metabolic future of
America. And I'm like, what is this? The
blind leading the blind, right? These
guys don't work out. They're they're
like most of them are like just their
lives. I didn't want to be like anything
like these guys. It's it's kind of like
when you've seen like prior uh you know
health administrations of like
presidents and they got these like
people that are way out of shape
bleeding. It's like what the hell is
going on?
>> Yeah. Exactly that ex exa exact same
thing. So that happened and then you
know there's much more details to that
story. And then I'm feeling like super
tired, drained. I'm 40 now. So I was 30
at the time and I'm like I'm not feeling
right like energy-wise everything focus,
concentration. I'm like something's up
right. So then that set me off on my
health journey. Um, I kind of quit
medicine there and um, and then in my
own health journey, my mom's from
Brazil, so I ended up in Brazil and
learned a lot of the medicine that I
know there like they have a lot of like
natural remedies there and so forth. And
I heard this my my mom, funny enough,
she's like, you ever heard of functional
medicine? I'm like, what? I'm
like, no, I don't know what that is. So,
as soon as she told me about that, I
started doing my research and I fell in
love with some docs in South America
that like they really knew their stuff
and just went down that rabbit hole. And
story is really long, but that's kind of
how it got started.
>> So I I want to ask and I want to get
into the business side of how you built
out biohacks and whatnot, but you are
somebody who has observed the way that
the traditional medicine business works,
but also building your own practice
where you're actually as with biohacks,
you actually want to see people cure the
diseases that they have. You want to see
them fix their health problems and
whatnot. Whereas in traditional
medicine, is there a certain degree to
which they are designed to keep people
coming back to them to where maybe they
alleviate symptoms but not totally
addressing those cures? What have you
learned about how healthcare the
business in the traditional side of
things actually works? Yeah, man. I
mean, when you look at it at the model,
either they're really blind or they're
really evil. It I mean because it
doesn't make sense like these chronic
care really really stinks. And then
people in acute care like in the ER etc.
they're just exacerbations of chronic
issues. So these people with metabolic
issues having heart attacks whatever
congestive heart fit all these things
due to exacerbations of of the chronic
care that we're not addressing. And then
what happens is like we come up with
these amazing technologies, right? Like
these robotic surgeries, you know, like
there's this like machines like the Da
Vinci and so forth, which is like really
cool. And it looks like medicine is
advancing, but it's not. And it's like
it's a whole different school of
thought. And sometimes I find myself in
um um heated debates, not going to say
arguments, but borderline, you know,
with with some some docs. And it's like
listen man I I come to always to a point
I'm like it's a different school of
thought what you're talking about like
you're saying the world's square I'm
here saying it's round man and the point
is it's this failing system that's
costing our country too much and not to
mention dude these are the people that
are alive that were causing issues. How
about the generations that are coming
like you know um 1970 one in 10,000 kids
was autistic.
Now it's one in 31.
>> What was it originally? 1970. You said
>> 1970. 1 in 10,000.
>> That's insane.
>> Now it's one in 31. Um like two, three
years ago it was or maybe four years ago
it was 1 in 52 if I'm not mistaken.
Okay. So it's like go ahead fact check
me. The numbers are very and what I'm
quoting is the CDC website. So it's like
whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa. Pump the
brakes. And I can go deeper into how
we're hurting the generations to come.
And the foods you're eating are
influencing future generations, but they
don't care about this. It's like, okay,
here's a new technology, a new machine,
new medication, so forth. Oh, medicine's
advanced. No, it's not. No, it's not.
>> What? So, so can you actually break that
down and go into why that is? Like where
it used to be kids weren't being born.
>> Well, I want to piggyback off that
because it's like it's almost like you
go to like a traditional doctor, like
they're going to find a way being like,
"Oh, this is what you're dealing with.
Here's this pill or here's this medicine
to take versus like, hey, what is your
sleep like? What is your diet like? What
is your like, hey, what are your like
daily habits? Like, do you have like
some sort of like hormone or something
that's off? Like it's always like, oh,
you're dealing with this, so like just
take this medicine here. I feel like a
lot of the times.
>> Yeah. A medicine or procedure or and the
thing is like we don't talk about um and
and these are like really do well
doumented things like hey, what bugs
have you been exposed to? for example,
uh uh uh tickborne illnesses,
micotoxins, which is like fungi, etc.
Even like long COVID, man, that spike
protein, that's a big problem. And
people are having issues, neurological
and cardiovascular issues because of
these things. Right now, you throw on a
little bit of excyitotoxins, you know,
like your your your yellow six, red 40s,
all this stuff. Now all of a sudden that
person is this crazy chemistry that at
face value looks normal but behind the
scenes when what which is what we do and
we look at their epiggenome we look at
those genes that are being methylated
and altered and turned on etc. And it's
like holy smokes man of course these
people are going to have the problems
but then you go back to traditional
care. Hey, there's a new pill for this
symptom. There's there's there's a new
procedure for whatever condition. And
it's like, okay, and that makes money,
etc., you know, big big pharma, big
metal. Um,
you know, and either they don't know or
they do know and they just want to keep
things moving. But the truth is, if you
go to root the root cause of things, you
solve the problem. You solve the problem
and you you'll you'll completely change
the fabric of the biology of our
country. Because if we if we don't act
fast,
we're going to take America's America's
IQ, we're going to take America's health
and crash it hard. Globally, it's it's
going to happen, but we're going to be
the first ones to really really give a
bad example of what we're doing to our
health.
>> What's a what's a belief that you have
about medicine that will get you laughed
out of like a traditional health
conference?
Uh, a strong belief that I have in
medicine is that your body is designed
to only consume what it knows things
that it knows what it is. So, meaning
your body knows what water is. Now, you
put chemicals inside that water, it
doesn't know what that is. So, it's
going to attack it. But in medicine,
they say, "No, no, there's there's
there's immune tolerance. Your immune
system can deal with certain toxins or
potato chips like in in a bag,
whatever." No, that that's food. No, no,
no. those chemicals, your body doesn't
know what it is and your body will start
to attack it. And the thing is, if it
keeps attacking it over time, it'll
start to attack yourself. It'll attack
self, which is autoimmune disease and
raise levels of inflammation that could
lead to cancer. A lot of docs are like,
"No, that's that's that's bogus." Like,
you could deal with uh u uh certain
level of toxins and so forth. And and I
preach about that all the time just cuz
like us at Biohacks, we deal with so
much inflammation and immune issues. So,
I really try to tell the team that takes
care of the patients like, "Hey, man,
watch the amount of toxins these people
are consuming." Uh, because our body's
not designed to tolerate that.
>> Well, don't it almost seems like for
hundreds of years, what were humans
eating? Whole foods that they created on
a farm. Like, it wasn't like it was
like, "Oh, let me put this chemical in
that didn't exist back then." Like, they
were eating whole foods for hundreds of
years over and over again. Then just
relatively in this century in the in in
the last half of last century everything
changed.
>> Yeah. If you look at like certain
diseases that just like look there's
about uh 10,000 monogenic diseases. So
describe diseases right some doc talks
to a patient like oh I never seen this
before starts to describe it and then
some other guy reads it. Oh I think I
got a patient with this. And then all of
a sudden right so there's about 10,000
of these meaning monogenic connected to
one gene. Right. [snorts] Um look at
Alzheimer's for example. What comes to
mind? Popular one right now. Very
popular and scary. Scary. Um, first
described in 1906 or 1905 by a guy with
the name of Aloy Alzheimer's, Dr. Aloy
Alzheimer's in Germany. Um, what I just
said is a little over 100 years ago, but
we were eating those whole foods. We
were eating where where was all the
disease before? Oh, we were dying from
like super infections and so forth.
Okay, but we figured now we're dying
from all these toxins leading us to
metabolic issues and so forth. Just
that's what I tell people. Use common
sense, man. Just go back on the clock.
Go back on the clock or go look at
cancer maps today. Look at um industrial
development and match it to the amount
level of cancers in different
communities. So, you go look at these
places that are completely like no
industry, etc. And you know, sure
they're poor, whatever, but they're
eating more whole foods than we are. And
go look at their levels of cancer. It
it's almost like if you went to the
grocery store and you flipped the
packaging on the back and you looked at
like all the things that are on the back
of the package of like the ingredient
list and it's like imagine you had those
laid out in front of you on a table and
like would you eat all of that and the
answer would pro and like all the
chemicals in like a little bottle and it
would pro your answer would probably be
no.
>> Of course
>> you can't even read half the ingredients
nowadays.
>> You don't even know what I mean.
>> Yeah. If you don't if you don't look if
it I mean if it has an ingredient list
like that you you shouldn't even be
touching it. And the thing is dude like
for example talk about ingredient list
like natural flavors you guys have seen
that is one of the words that means I I
mean I can't even tell you guys
>> it that word can mean
>> a ton of other stuff
>> like I think there's like 60 or 70 other
designations for natural flavors. So
it's like that's that's a very
unregulated scary word when you see oh
you know I don't know uh water coconut
and natural flavors it's like okay
interesting you know it's like uh maybe
I don't want to do the natural flavors
thing but again we get so desensitized
in seeing these things and then it's
like oh okay and if I was to go down the
rabbit hole and show you guys what these
things can do these little levers that
could turn on certain genes like there
is no direct gene connected to cancer
I'll say that again. There's no gene
that causes cancer. You can't say that.
[snorts] And then when a doctor says
like, "Oh, it's in your genes. It's in
your DNA or something like that." I
think that's a disservice to the patient
cuz like you are basically
um you are there there's like a tyranny
in saying that to the patient because
it's like the patient now walks away
with the label. Hey, it's it's in um
it's in my DNA. I can't do anything
about it.
>> It's inevitable. I got nothing. [snorts]
Yeah.
>> But when you're like, "Wait, wait. You
can modify these things. You can modify
your risks and your exposures. And
that's what EP genetics is, right?
That's that's the beauty of these things
once you understand, you know, the
control that you actually do have over
your health. That's another thing with
chronic care. You're taught to thinking
like you don't have control over your
health. Oh, it's in I was born this way.
It's in my DNA. No, no, no. Pump the
brakes, man. And it goes back to the
narrative like, oh, you know, like uh
no, you don't have to be poor. You don't
have to not be successful. You don't
have to not be healthy. you know, you
have control.
>> What do What do you think of fasting?
Because I've seen a couple things of
like if you fast, then it can almost
wither away certain cells and things
like that that might be harmful to you.
What is there truth to that? Like what
is what is the deal with fasting?
>> Fasting is the best thing you could do.
Fasting is the best thing you could do.
Like one thing that I really like too is
to look like I I go back in time. I
really like to see how people took care
of their health back in the day and what
they did you know like you just said you
know oh back in the day what did we eat
back in the day did we fast even all the
holy books like all ancient books all
civilizations talk about fasting h come
on you know it that right there that
that health principle right there is one
of the oldest ones and then it did win
the no nobel prize of medicine I believe
in 1915 or 16 on uh on the concept of
autoagi which is the body eating itself
which is really cool. What you're really
provoking the body to do is eat itself.
And there's so much connected to fasting
on on the principles of longevity. So
all all the doctors there's a trial
called the calorie trial which uh um the
they've used this a lot and and you know
how these you have these epigenetic
clocks now it's like oh how how old are
you really? How you know like
>> like on Whoop like yeah. So these
algorithms are all very different there.
Some of them are very wonky and you know
um but the calorie trial was uh on which
some of these first clocks were were
tested on and they were you know some
worked some didn't but the thing is
everybody agrees in medicine traditional
not traditional that uh food restriction
and timed eating does help with
longevity a lot fasting is like insane
fasting is great
>> I wanted to touch on how you know you
brought up earlier about the the I guess
rates of kids that are autistic when
they're born. And it used to be one in
like 30,000 or something like that. Now
it's one in like 31. Maybe I got the the
first number of
>> one in 10,000 and then one in 31.
>> Now one in 31. That obviously has to do
with the root of what the parent is
giving off to them. And you brought up
vitamins earlier, right? And what I want
to talk about is deficiencies among the
patients you see. And obviously I know
that there's a certain level of
confidentiality. So you don't have to
get in depth with the types of people or
who you're seeing and whatnot. It
doesn't have to just be your patients,
but in general, the general public, the
people that come to you, what is the
most common deficiency across the board
that you see so many people struggling
with and that they have, which is a big
reason why everybody feels like all
the time?
>> So me, I mean, I spend my days now like,
you know, more as a biotech
entrepreneur, but like our team's big,
sees people all all over the country,
and so I'm I'm getting a lot of feedback
from the team as well.
I'm going to give you one that it's hard
to measure, but you see a lot of people
have issues with this. Magnesium.
People are having headaches, high blood
pressure, etc. Magnesium is huge, man.
Magnesium is um for example, in the
hospital, there's a crazy heartbeat
called torsad point, right? It's it's
French. It stands for twisting of the
points. Like you see the EKG, it's
crazy. It it's like you can't interpret
it. So, magnesium is great for that. a
baby that's born premature, you need to
give that baby magnesium so he matures
his brain.
>> You had, I believe, a heart atrial
fibrillation. Yeah. And you had a
magnesium deficiency.
>> Yeah. That So I had that I had AIB for
about 2 three hours. um uh and it wasn't
rapid uh just sitting in my office and
boop popped into AIB and uh uh in a
meeting and that was right after couple
months after having co so one big thing
that is and even today I got a phone
call bigname person same thing um Aphib
twice electrophysiologist wants to you
know uh your heart's perfectly fine
let's um you know do the ablation and um
so what we did we referred to a
metabolic cardiologist which a lot of
people don't even know what that is but
a John's Hopkins triple board certified
friend of mine that I'm like why don't
you talk to him first before you you
know follow along what the EP has to say
and you know my case was also um not so
much the deficiencies but it was more of
of a case of lingering spike protein etc
and I had the pleasure to uh even talk
to big named cardio cardiologist in the
in the metabolic cardiology space, Dr.
Thomas Levy. Great books, etc. Like the
guy's an OG. Um, as soon as I mentioned
my case to him, he's like, "Oh, you're
another one of those, right?" And me,
like I I live doing plasma exchanges and
stem cells and peptides and so forth.
Um, that can happen to anybody, but more
so if somebody has deficiencies or etc.
you know in my thing especially during
those that that time that was like four
years ago super stressed had my first
son uh I was taking a board exam you
know like so sleeping little etc you
know and and those viruses they catch
that opportunity and you think they're
gone oh I don't have a cold anymore 3 4
months later and you cough that thing up
right so that's I tell people a lot
check your co spike proteins cuz it's a
thing long co is a real thing why does
that have an effect on people like like
can you explain that to people that may
not understand the whole deal with the
spike proteins because I'm not even too
famili I mean I know that we've talked
about it before in the past but what is
the significance of having those in your
body?
>> Well, it's huge. Um and it's it's and
and I want to tell you guys it's it's
not not only CO was definitely like a
super special bug. Um and um the that
virus is very interesting. There's even
uh um there's small sites on the virus
that have the same parts as the HIV
virus. which is pretty crazy. Yeah,
there's some analogy in the anatomy of
the virus which is pretty wild. Um, but
so when you have this spike protein, it
literally damages your body in in the
nervous system and cardiovascular
system. So it it's basically taking a
little dent into your system on a
day-to-day basis and you're your body's
going to start to manifest um issues of
that spike protein. And this can happen
this can happen with other bugs as well
you know like uh uh tickborne illness
illnesses etc can you know when I was in
med school I uh one day I woke up and
half my face was frozen so yeah I got I
got a really bad I mean I was 26 that
was way before and you know I got Bell's
palsy and you know my face is normal now
but you know it could have scarred me so
your nervous system and your
cardiovascular system are very very very
um what do you call it sensitive to
certain infections and I Hope this helps
people cuz sometimes people don't know
what they have going on and traditional
care will not look at these things like
h they'll brush it over real fast. Let's
just do an ablation. It's like no man
there's there's reasons behind these
things.
>> Yeah. He I know James just kind of
touched on what are the most common
deficiencies that people have. But what
are some of the principles that people
can follow to live a healthier and
better life whether it's a certain
amount of sleep, exercise, vitamins or
supplements they should take? Well, I
want to add to that when you said one of
the reasons why you got into functional
medicine is because you were like, I'm
tired. I'm dealing with, you know, I'm
dealing with this and stress and I feel
like every single person out there or
the majority, especially go-getters,
entrepreneurs, things like that, they
run themselves into the ground. They're
like, man, I'm tired.
>> Yeah, that's I think that the one of the
biggest scops in like society and in our
day and age, like our crew, like go
work. Ah, don't sleep. Uh, no, bro.
That's like first of all, like I'm going
to mix medicine with entrepreneurship
right now if you guys allow me.
>> Yeah,
>> bro. You're awake and your ass is
unproductive as hell and it's like
you're pushing yourself and it's like
you're sending stupid long emails.
You're on social media eating crap,
having useless conversations, going to
networking crap and not doing anything.
And you're busy as hell and you're
confusing being busy with being
productive. And then it's like, I slept
four hours and I'm going hard. Yeah. I'm
like, no, bro. Shut up. You don't know
what you're doing. It's like 100%.
[laughter]
It's like no. And then the thing is
sleep. Sleep is one of the biggest
things, man. Especially like for you
know the young entreprene
the the the the return the bang the the
what is it the the bang for your buck
with sleep and fasting. You ask me two
things. Sleep and fasting. The bang for
your buck on your health is going to be
so big. Mental clarity etc.
Productivity. Okay. Cuz like one thing I
get to do, you know, I obviously never
mention names and so forth, but damn, I
get to sit down with the most productive
people on planet Earth, like sometimes
like, wow,
okay, just got to talk to this person.
Um, there they the high performance
thing, you know, the amount of stuff
that these guys can get done is crazy.
And the thing is they're all very hungry
and driven. But to keep that level of
hunger and drive as well, you know, in
the long term, you have to have a
certain level of rest. If you live
exhausted for the five, five, 10 years,
you're going to burn out. That's where
burnout happens. And that's where I get
to see a lot of these very successful
people, athletes, entrepreneurs, etc.
Some of them burn themselves out. And
then there's this there's literally a
curve, a production possibility curve.
uh and you know which culminates in
burnout if you're not cautious. Sleep is
[snorts] huge. You know, if you wear a
sleep monitor, look at your heart rate
at night. Look at your HRV. That is
insane important. I feel like
>> you're preaching to the choir here.
>> Hey, I was going to ask like I feel like
you're talking about the nervous system
and the cardiovascular system and I
think HRV links them. It's that's like
the metric that links them together,
right? Yeah. And how it's almost kind of
like that's like the longevity metric
like how how do people like increase
their HRV? That's what I want.
>> And just real quick, could you also
explain what HRV
>> HRV is? Yeah.
>> Yeah. So heart rate variability, right?
You have your heart rate which is you
know obviously you don't want a high
heart rate um during I mean you're going
to feel wired, tired, etc. Um it's
harder to even like um I spar every day
before work like spar today, right? Um,
so I check my heart rate at night and
then I kind of know how tired I'm going
to get to do 11, 12, how many rounds I
will donate my body uh to whoever I'm
sparring with, right? Um, I've been
doing that consistently for three years.
So it's not like, oh, I just start. No,
I've been consistently for three years.
Um, the thing is heart rate you want as
low as possible. HRV, you want it as
high as possible. So high variation of
the heart. And to be able to increase
that um it's actually relaxing and going
parasympathetic. So your your body has
your body just has like two gears
forward and reverse. So when you go
sympathetic is fight or flight. Let's
go. And that's kind of what we you know
we tell ourselves basically like the
entrepreneur entrepreneur thing like in
my head all I hear is like oh they're
telling them to be sympathetic.
Yeah. Go get deals done. go whatever
phone calls okay when do you go
parasympathetic which is like the rest
digest etc you know when do you call and
being able to relax helps you to live
longer helps you to be more productive
and America has a big problem and talk
about chronic care let's talk about the
psychiatric chronic care in America
America lives kind of on and kind of off
what do I mean by that kind of off
because 30% of America suffers with
insomnia kind of on because I don't know
the real percentage I don't know the
real Remember, a big part of America
can't focus, can't study. Oh, let me get
take some amphetamines. And what do you
mean? Oh, yeah. Add aderalls, rtoolins,
and all that stuff. Drink a bunch of
caffeine, a bunch of energy drinks, and
so forth. America lives wired and tired,
wired and tired, wired and tired.
Instead of being a real productive,
highlevel entrepreneur, when you're on,
boom, you got eight hours, 10 hours, and
you're pushing it. I'm talking about 10
hours of true productivity, like
crushing it, meetings, etc. high energy
where everybody feels like it's
authentic true high energy that's hard
to be over 10 hours or 12 hour whatever
but then you truly rest when you truly
rest and you give yourself a reboot
that's super important super important
for productivity and longevity 100%. So,
usually when I'm we travel all the time
for Hard Knocks, but usually when I'm
home and able to just kind of like dial
at my computer to get work done, I'll
get up work pretty much all day and then
around 5 6:00 I I work through it, but I
start to get really tired. But one
morning, I woke up and I didn't look at
my phone for like pretty much when I
woke up and then I went straight
outside, went on a walk, came back, and
then got to work. That five, six o'clock
mark hit, I wasn't tired at all. I was
ready to keep going for like three, four
more hours of work. And I feel like
everybody when they're, you know, they
wake up and they take their phone and
they look and it's automatically like
bing bing bing bing fire, fire fire they
got to put out or um something like
that. It was just crazy to me how it was
just like, man, when I got up and just
low stress, didn't look at the phone,
went and actually got some exercise in
and then came back, I was not tired
anymore.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And that that's I I give
that example all the time. Um, back in
the day you had to feed your family,
maybe worried about a saber-tooth tiger
coming to kill you guys and, you know,
just kind of, you know, little little
fire and kind of play with sticks and
rocks with your kids, talk to the wife.
I'm serious. Like, think about it a few
years ago. Like, I'm I'm being
allegorical, but think about it a few
years ago, just like recent few years
ago. Now, all of a sudden, they bathe us
in this electronic communication. Ding,
ding, ding, ding, ding. Everything.
Like, you go bananas, man. Like, you
don't relax. like you lose your there's
people that I talk to like bro you're so
wired you need two phones one phone that
you're a wife and kid and maybe your
parents know the number and then no
social media nothing else and then
another phone that's your and then
you're going to grab this thing at 9 in
the morning given you woke up at 7 and
you're going to put it away 6 p.m. go
live your life now and then tell me how
you feel in three months. You know,
because it is that that's true, man. You
get hit all and then you're in
sympathetic state. Sympathetic state and
it's important. Centinarians, there's
studies showing that the people that
live to like 100 plus the centinarian
communities, which there's four in the
world, Okinawa, Japan, Sardinia, Italy,
uh Costa Rica, and Lomolinda,
California. Uh there's one in the US
oddly enough. Um, and these people, they
practice a lot of like relaxation and
and I'm not talking about like
meditating on I'm not talking about any
[laughter]
 of that stuff. All right? I'm
not talking about that stuff. I'm just
talking about like chilling out,
relaxing with like you go to Europe, you
know, in Europe, you go to Spain, Italy,
you see people just sitting in a cafe
and so forth and socializing. That's
essential for your health. Essential for
your health. You know, that's one of the
big secrets. for example, the Lom
Melinda uh community in um off off of
LA. It's about six it's a city off of LA
with those people there. They're they're
they socialize a lot. That's a big thing
for
>> when I when I brought up Europe earlier
about like you know there's things that
aren't in their food that we I was
thinking of Italy pretty much. Well,
because and and when you go like when we
went there, we basically learned that
like the meals are like a essential
thing.
>> Yeah. during their day that they go and
they sit there for like three. It's like
a two, three hour event for them to just
chill out. We
>> we we're actually expanding our business
to to Europe and um there's a very
well-known family that's that's helping
us. They're Italian. I won't mention
their names, but I had a meeting with
them in New York. I sat at the table for
12 hours. These people give [laughter]
me pasta like pasta and so forth. They
they have restaurants as well and so
forth. I'm like, "Uh, guys, I'm going to
leave you rolling." [laughter] Like I
was going to say, you didn't walk out of
there. He rolled out.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, they flew in from
Italy. They're they're actually really
like real Italians. And I'm like, "Wow,
this is very interesting meeting, you
know, and one of our partners like
hardcore Americans and so forth. He's
like, I'm not used to this, man. This is
like, you know, it's like, when are we
going to get to the meeting part?" I'm
like, "But they're talking. They're
developing relationships and
friendship." And I really enjoy that.
Like I'm actually, my dad's from
Portugal, mom's from Brazil, dad's from
Portugal, you know, Portuguese, kind of
similar to Italians, too. Sit at the
table. And so I was raised like that
with my grandparents. And then you go,
you fall into the go go go go go go go
go go go go go go go go go go go go go
go go go go go go go go go go go go go
go go go go go go go go go go. And don't
get me wrong I'm an entrepreneur too and
so forth. But now I've been way more
cautious with like I need to stop. I
need to enjoy I need to enjoy you know a
breath of fresh air every once in a
while just like sit down with no phone
for a sec. We don't know how to do that
anymore. And then talk about like you
now you get hit with toxins, you're
getting hit with EMF, all these
different frequent and then your brain
is in crazy stress.
This is a recipe for disaster. I wanted
to shift real quick to talk about
biohacks, the business that you've
built, right? Because obviously you are
a wealth of knowledge of not only just
um health, right? Because I could ask
you millions of I know we all could ask
you millions of questions about our
health and our habits and you know just
you're a very trusted person in that
regard. anytime any of us have ever had
something even you know family related
the first person to think about is Dr.
D. But you're also you know have built
an incredible business and a lot of
people let's say they go to medical
school they spend 10 plus years from
start to finish going through you know
school they come out they've got this
instant gratification they have no idea
how to build a real practice right
because they were in school for so damn
long. You've built such an established
business. You're working with some of
the biggest names in business,
entertainment, sports. Can you talk to
us about your progression of building
biohacks to what it is today, just from
start to finish, right? Your turning
point in saying, "I'm going to open up
my own practice out here in South
Florida." What were the steps that it
took to build that business? And then we
can dive a little bit deeper in some of
the specific things that you're doing.
Yeah, I mean at first it was it was
really hard to like conceptualize even
what the heck I was doing, especially um
you know a big part of my my career is
absolutely crazy after I was at
Cleveland Clinic. um I I jumped out of
my residency path and then I didn't want
anything to do with medicine and then
okay I'm like okay let me go um find a
medical team to work with hire these
people and then you know build build uh
this clinic which now is a 50 state
licensed telealth company which that's
another can of worms um the the
essential things that it it's not like
I can't tell you man James I can't tell
you was like, oh, here's like I'm going
to apply this business strategy or
whatever. When I started finding out
about these things, the my view of
medicine, I would sit down with people
when they would come in and, you know, I
would start with, did you know this and
this and this and that? And, you know,
we would look at the cases, you know,
with the with with the team and so
forth, uh, of, you know, medical
professionals and I'm like, wait a
minute, this person, this issue could be
fixed if maybe we look into this or
maybe we look into that. And then I
remember a lot of pe a lot of the
patients were telling me, you're a great
sales guy. I'm like sales guy. This guy
just called me a sales guy. And then it
would happen again. It's like, oh,
you're you're you're really passionate
about this. So, I started hearing the
word passionate. So, you know, maybe in
I don't know, six people called me sales
guy. And I was like, all right, that's
weird. But then the word passionate
really started to like that word I kept
hearing on a day-to-day basis. And it
was kind of just sort of brush it off my
shoulder. But then I was I mean super
excited about what I was doing. And then
all of a sudden, you know, I get some
random emails. Hey, I have this very
special person to bring to you today. I
didn't know exactly. It's always the
same thing. It's a a manager. It's
somebody spe that brings me a celebrity
brings me like a very, you know, um like
a power person, whatever. And I'm like,
"Oh, wow." You know, uh and then I would
hear the same thing. I heard you're very
passionate about this, etc. Then I grew,
but then I had to really become the
businessman to put systems, models, and
procedures into place um to to be able
to to scale the thing. Um and it it was
it was a hard hard
um road for me in a bit for a while
because I was getting so much demand. I
was like, what do I do with all these
people?
>> I'm curious, right? Because like you had
to go from practitioner to to business
person. Did you have like a mentor or
how did you go about, you know, learning
how to actually run a business? books.
Um, it's funny. I I I did go to school.
I I do have an MBA, but [snorts] like
this doesn't make any I mean,
>> you didn't let the business there.
>> No, man. I remember sitting there in the
NBA. I'm like, I'm in business from this
guy that doesn't have a business. It's
like, [laughter] what the heck? Um, so,
but anyways, um,
I I I I went to courses. I I did a
couple of times a Tony Robbins business
mastery. That that was a really really
good one for me. um connecting my
passion to the project itself and like
understanding you know you know I didn't
even know what the word operations was.
I mean what's operations like surgery
like what do you you know like I I you
know um and then um books and I didn't
have a specific mentor. I I didn't I
would love to tell you that I did but I
I never did. So, it was just, you know,
figuring things out as I went, you know,
and and I would join specific
organizations and listen to podcasts
and, you know, picking up here and
there. When I last interviewed you
February 2024, when we were on your
yacht, uh there's an answer that you
gave me in one of my questions that has
always stuck with me and just has always
been in the back of my mind. And it was
when I asked you about, you know, among
yourself and the most successful people
that you study and know, what's that one
trait that they all have in common? And
you talked about just the raw and pure
obsession that they have. In particular,
there's a comment that you made that
they're always scheming. They're always
scheming. I think about us. I mean, like
the reason why we've been able to grow
Hard Knocks to 18 million followers,
doing over a million dollars a month, is
because I mean, we are just obsessed
with what we do. Like, I I am so
obsessed with the the interviews that I
do, ensuring that they all go viral,
getting millions of views, and and that
one trait right there. And it goes back
to kind of in that last point that you
brought up about you had all these
people that were telling you that, you
know, you're a good salesman when in
reality I think if all of us had to go
around the room describing you, I would
never think of you as like a salesy kind
kind of guy, which is what you don't
want to be like and associate with those
people.
>> But that raw passion and obsession that
you had for medicine, longevity, making
people healthy, that was one of your
ingredients to success right there. The
obsession factor, how common is that in
the most successful people you've seen?
Oh, it's it's super it's I mean super
common like I I noticed that I won't say
who I was talking to but just a massive
person like particularly a big fan of
this person's music and um I'm like
looking at the person like dude you have
everything and so forth and they're
still like no but I got to do this and
this and this and figure this out. I'm
like the heck you know I'm like this
guy's really really hungry. That was the
word that really stuck up to, you know,
stuck out to me. And then I started
thinking I'm like, "Wait a minute." Like
I did like this like kind of retroactive
um thought process. It kind of like for
I remember this day exactly. And I was
like, "All these guys are really hungry.
All these guys are like it doesn't work
this way. We're going to figure it out
this way. We're going to do, you know,
like and and that right there even gave
me more insight why they were coming to
me. I'm like, they wanted the extra
edge. And they use guys that tell me
I'll never talk about you. I can't tell
people who my edge is. I was like, "No,
I you know how many times I've heard
this in one word, in one way or the
other,
>> the X Factor."
>> I'm like, "No way really." You know, and
it's like, "All right." So, okay, I'll
stay behind the curtains, you know,
>> the best kept secret, you know?
>> You know, but but that but that hunger
that there's a biological component to
that hunger, too.
>> Yeah. I want to talk about some of the
different verticals that you're involved
in as well because you also have I think
a joint venture with John Matson as
well.
>> Oh yeah. So how did you kind of grow go
about growing the different verticals of
biohacks? Right. Obviously I think did
it just start primarily with kind of one
sort of treatment where you would do
testing for people? How did you grow
about the different verticals and how
have you managed that expansion so much?
Now you're going global. You're going to
Europe now. So how's that expansion been
and growing the different verticals?
>> Yeah. No, listen. Um, you're actually
touching one of my the points I'm most
proud of and like it like I'm starting
to I feel like that's the a trophy I'm
about to like lift up. Um, so when I
started it was just like a simple little
blood exam. You know, I started this
thing with a doctor that was I knocked
on his door when I was 23 years old. Um,
and very very very dear person uh to me,
Dr. Richard Silva. he's he's uh in uh up
in Fort Lauderdale and he backed me up
and so forth and we started this and you
know and he he gave me a lot of the
first steps and so forth and you know it
was uh he would come for a consult 200
bucks I don't remember with blood work
with everything um I remember one day
like this is the passionate thing I just
remember this lady came in and she's
like oh you're the crazy guy that writes
on the windows right I'm like and my
windows were really written I I didn't
know like I would get up on my desk
write with a mark cuz it was all glass
in my office, right? And like in the
beginning, I couldn't afford those vibe
boards. Now I have those vibe boards and
what and I would write on the glass and
so forth. And so once I started getting
more into that stuff and like more
passion so forth, I my re even today I
was doing this like all the new
modalities there are to test for data. I
always want it for myself and I always
tell my team like oh this is a new test.
I want to do it on myself. I'm like
let's give it to the patients too. like
you know obviously make sure
everything's valid and good source great
laboratories um so the the amount of
data we started collecting was really
big and then eventually I got into
epigenetics
which is the future of medicine guys
that's like the crypto of medicine like
that's a whole freaking series in in and
of itself
>> and that's engineering your genetics
pretty much
>> it's the ex it's it's very simple you
have your genes that never change you
test your genes today and test them 100
years later they're the Same for all of
us in the room. Now you I'll blow your
mind. A grain of rice has 52,000 genes.
Okay? Grain of rice has 50. That's a lot
of genes, right?
>> Do you know how many genes you have?
>> Millions.
>> Billions.
>> From 22,000 to 25,000 genes. You have
half the genes of a grain of rice. Yeah.
That eyebrow thing you just did. Yeah.
So, yeah, that blew my That's one of the
biggest things that blew my mind. And go
look this up. The human genome project
which was finally done calculating in
April April 2002 was to see how many
genes we have. We have less than a
genetic
>> how is that like why is that how is that
possible?
>> That's it. That's the amount of genes
that that that that's it. There's no
it's not pos. It's a it's a very binary
thing. That's that's it. So now what
you're asking is how am I possible? It's
like you take a grain of rice like wait
how are you more genetically complex
than I am? So the epigenetics really
comes in. It's the expression of those
genes, bro. It's how it it So, you have
your genes and then the expression of
those genes and one gene can have 30,000
permutations. That's how it's possible.
So, that's what I got into. So, then
it's like, okay, you got this
environmental toxin, you got this
hormone, etc. What is it doing to these
genes? So, and this is the simple, they
complicate this so much. You have your
genes and then it's like a little light
switch. I want you to think of it as a
light switch or a little volume switch
like you're playing music and you could
turn on really high the the volume or
turn it off completely. So what we call
mythilation or acetilation, right?
Withating is turning it off. Acetilating
turning it on. I mean [snorts] if you
talk to a scientist it's going to sound
like Chinese but that's really what it
is. It's light bulbs on a DNA. Okay
simple to understand. So then there's
certain things you could give it which
is binary good or bad. Your body doesn't
interpret like oh I think this is okay.
No it's good or bad. And then that
volume switch goes up and down. So then
I started getting into that plus then
collecting a ton of data on
environmental toxins and so forth. And
then I started earning the respect of a
lot older gentlemen in my field. You
know, people calling me, hey, the
directors from the lab. Hey, I see the
data you're collecting. I see the stuff
that you're doing. I see the names
coming by here. Like I I literally I
remember this one time like the at the
time this was the largest peptide
pharmacy in the country. And the guy,
one of the guys writes to me, "All
right, our president wants to come and
talk to you." Didn't say like meet you
or anything. I'm like, "What do I do?"
You know, and he's like, he the first
thing he like we sit down in a
restaurant. He's like, "Who are you?"
He's like, "Where are these names coming
from?" And like where like who's
sponsoring you? Who's like and I'm like,
"No, it was all based off of the data
that we we're collecting." And then to
understand how to manipulate this data,
which leads us to where we are today.
We're about to launch uh now January 15,
a couple of days away, [snorts] um
supplements made for your epigenetics,
for your epiggenome, basically with a
finger prick. So um
I basically took I'm taking a test from
a company um um in partnership with them
called True Diagnostic uh which is by
far the best epigenetic company in in in
the world, largest epigenetic database,
etc. in the world. No private, no
government institution can compare to
them. I really respect their work. And
um again, because of the work I was
doing, I got friendly with the the main
scientist and it's a finger prick that
you could see almost 2,000 markers
instead of drawing blood. And you just
put it on a little little drop of blood
on a piece of paper and you could see
things like how many time a how many
times a person smoked in their whole
lifespan,
>> how many times they drank in their
lifespan. And there's even talks about
seeing where people live by a drop of
blood because you can match toxicity
inside of them and matching it to
toxicity in by zip code which is crazy.
So now that's where our work is leading.
So now we'll be making supplements which
will be in an espresso pod espresso
looking pod not an actual espresso pod.
So, a little cup, we'll be making
supplements based off of that, which is
super exciting for me because like we'll
be able to deliver the same value or
akin to it that we've been delivering
with Biohack Medical, but for a mass
population at, you know, a couple bucks.
>> Yeah. So, that that's our our that's
going to be my global initiative right
now.
>> At um at at Biohacks, I feel like
there's a bunch of tests that
traditional medicine wouldn't offer like
a typical patient. What are the tests
that every person, every American should
try to get in their life to really get a
full picture of their health? No
questions asked.
Um, their rate of aging, how fast are
they aging? And no offense to a lot of
algorithms that are out there, a lot of
them are, most of them are absolute
trash. There's a whole there's a whole
um industry to this thing, okay? I'm I'm
not going to get into these epigenetic
clocks and so forth because it does get
a little hairy, but just like we're
we're now at one, you know, we had the
first, second, third generation of these
epigenetic clocks, but now we're at a
more advanced um um
um time with these epigenetic clocks,
but you can actually see how fast you're
aging. So, if you're aging really fast,
that's that's a that's a problem. So a
like for example companies like True
Diagnostic which they've published
studies with Harvard, Yale, Duke. I mean
if you go to their website they're
they're all over. Um you know uh
academia [snorts] you could see check
this out. Ready? You want a crazy
statistic? You can see with the 92%
accuracy when somebody's going to die
with a delta of 5 years plus or minus 5
years
>> if and that's if they were to continue
just their current habits and lifestyle
they're living right. That's why I'm
saying that's so important. And this is
really off on guard. You know, like a
lot of docs will be like, uh,
measure your vitamin D or measure your
sugar. And it's like, no, no, no. We're
way past that. I want to see how fast
you're damaging yourself. How much
damage has that DNA incurred? How old
does your DNA really think?
>> Do you think sleep is the biggest thing
that that test triggers?
>> Uh, this is all really really well
documented. Um, which which are the
biggest interventions? And a
a big portion of it is individual, which
is the be the beauty of this thing.
Certain foods are will be better for you
and certain foods obviously, you know,
eating a bunch of crap cheeseburgers
every day is going to be bad for
everybody, right? But there might be a
vegetable that's better for you versus
him, etc. But sleep. Yeah. I honestly
like if I have to shoot from the hip,
sleep is probably one of the best things
you could do for your for longevity.
>> All right, so let's play a game. I'm 23
right now. My goal is to live to a 100
years old. If I were to be honest with
you, I think if I continue my current
lifestyle habits, I'd maybe make it to
75 because I I sleep like I travel
all the time. I don't eat great. If you
were to instill five things in me right
now to make sure that I live from 23 to
100 years old, what would you do? Give
me the Give me the five pillars right
now.
>> Ready? You're 23.
>> Yeah.
>> Sleep.
>> How how much?
>> Eight hours.
>> Eight hours every 7 and 12 to 8 hours.
>> Okay.
>> Um, no processed foods. No processed
foods. Meaning,
>> no more McDonald's.
>> No more Big Mac shaves.
>> I can't even work with this room, bro.
It's like, [laughter]
>> but can have you ever had Canes before,
Dr.
>> D? No, I never had Canes.
>> He's never had Canes.
>> Uh, no. Like, even Yeah. No. No.
Uh, never drank alcohol in my life.
Like,
>> wow. That's amazing.
>> Is that number three?
>> Yeah. I'm I'm not I'm I'm not a drinker
though. I'm not a drinker.
>> Okay. But still, uh so no, I'm I'm still
on number one. Oh, no. Number two was uh
processed foods. Um I would incorporate
fasting.
>> Okay.
>> Um
>> what's that schedule like? Like you
>> is it like intermittent fasting?
>> So intermittent fasting is good, but
like the long periods of fasting. So
>> like two like on like a 72 hour water
fast sort of thing. Exactly. How often?
>> So not that I know of. I've never seen
published data that's like okay this
specific type you know here's a perfect
schedule
>> um maybe there is in the world of
epigenetics you know and that's the
beauty of epigenetics but prolonged
fasting there is data on prolonged
fasting um how it is improved for you
and there's certain thresholds of of
certain uh time periods where certain
biochemical processes start in like
after 72 96 etc certain things start in
your body so you know if it's possible
to work up to that, you know, um that is
something phenomenal. [snorts] Um
uh so so that was number three.
Number four, I would really really
really take inventory of the toxins
you're exposed to. Super take inventory
of the toxins you're exposed to. I would
not play around with that. Um toxins
will wreak havoc in your life and
they're just they're poison.
>> What do you mean by that? So, so the to
So, there's a ton of toxins in food,
water, um, um, plastics, etc. For
example, guys talk about testosterone,
testosterone, testosterone. Yeah,
testosterone is great, man, but you're
you're giving yourself so much garbage
that is increasing your estrogen and
destroying your testosterone. Like, why
is our testosterone level so low
nowadays,
>> right? So, do you know what your
testosterone level is at 23?
>> I don't know what mine is now.
>> All right. So, I would just keep an eye
on it. you probably don't need anything
right now, you know. And when I say pro,
I know I got doctors out there like,
"Oh, what do you mean? He he doesn't
need anything." No, no, no, no.
Sometimes they need a good detox. A
23-year-old will need a good detox. And
that's where doctors like, "No, pump the
brakes. Do an environmental toxin on a
test on this guy and look at the BPAs
and all that stuff." And it's like, "Oh,
doctor, oh yeah, okay, I wasn't talking
about giving you testosterone." Of
course not. You're way too young. I'm
not talking about that stuff, but I'm
talking about watching for endocrine
disruptors. That's a type of
environmental toxin, you know. And then
uh lastly micronutrients also
understanding your micronutrients. So
vitamins, minerals, antioxidants super
super super important bro like you know
your levels you know this is very common
nowadays. People are starting to
understand this more. Levels of vitamin
D3 but magnesium is a big one. You know
people sleep on on supplementing with
micronutrients. Micronutrients are very
important. High quality micronutrients.
Those would be my top five for you. Um
and there is a big difference. There's
studies even I mentioned Sententrum in
the beginning but there's studies even
with Centrum how it actually does put an
influence and slow down your rate of
aging even like um
the not so good vitamin cocktail has
sent you know hey [snorts] that's the
blueprint right there let's get
controversial for a minute real quick
>> let's go
>> we're going to talk about the unspoken
word the COVID vaccine okay I went to a
cardiologist at a like renowned like
your typical traditional medicine place
in Texas. Not going to shout out my guy
cuz I don't want big farmer to take him
out. But uh anyways, you know, he he was
I went to go see cardiology cuz I had
been uh running and I noticed that when
I was like running consistently, I
started to kind of get some like tension
and pain kind of in like the left side
of my chest. Just wanted to make sure
everything was okay. And just one thing
led to another. Got into a conversation
with him about that. And this is the
first ever, you know, as you know, Jack
had a couple bouts of going, he's been
how many cardiologists? And you've had a
couple.
>> I mean, I've probably been seen a
cardiologist visit probably just the
same amount as a 80-year-old [laughter]
at this point.
>> Anyways, I'm 25.
>> Anyways, anyways, the cardiologist I had
in in Texas actually was the first I say
this because I know from his experience
going to traditional medicine, anytime
you question to most people in
traditional medicine about the vaccine,
they go, "Oh, nothing to do with that.
Nothing." They shut it down. They'll be
like, "Uh, you know, and they get like
like it's like they don't want to."
>> My point was is that this doctor said
that, you know, all I'm going to say is
they did studies in some Japanese city
of people that took the vaccine and
didn't, and they said that people that
took it actually ended up having way
worse longer term health issues with a
variety of different things. Why do you
think that was? And what are your
overall thoughts on whenever there is a
new vaccine out in particular? We could
take CO for example or just if there was
another global health crisis that comes
out. Where would your hesitancy be
towards these vaccines? I just want to
get your thoughts. I know we talked
about it earlier. Your thoughts on the
COVID vaccine and for people's overall
hesitancy to them?
>> You guys love that question, don't you?
[laughter]

>> I know it's sensitive.
>> No, no, I know. And and no, but it's
it's a necessary um it's a it's a
necessary question. Look, I particularly
don't subscribe to it. like
that thing got appro just just the
approval process like it it didn't go
through proper studies. didn't go
through and then it's crazy how doctors
all of a sudden it's like okay yeah it's
okay it's okay it's okay it's okay it's
like whoa it's like wait a minute it's
like there's no questions asked you know
and doctors are very indoctrinated you
don't ask questions you just do and do
and do so it's like me it it just
doesn't go with my personality I'm a
very like I I ask questions and I'll
always be that way I'm not trying to be
controversial or anything so
um when you look especially it's mRNA
technology start there, you know, it's
like it's a different kind of technology
to which you're going to start to see
more and more and more of. So it's like
you're playing with fire and it's
something completely new and we see it
didn't you know all the way from the the
shots to the vaccines and to it didn't
mitigate problems as we thought it did
you know and there was really great
solutions you know that other countries
even tried and I won't mention the names
here um just there there's other stuff
with really good studies and etc
[snorts]

that I if I if I were to mention the
name here. A lot of people would be like
even doctors would have never heard of
of some of this stuff. But there are
countries like for example Bolivia
sanctioned it during during COVID a
whole country you know it was very
controversial and it's like wait a
minute how come we don't talk about
these things right there's things that
are you know have been around forever we
don't talk about but then all of a
sudden come a vaccine it's like yeah
it's approved and then look at the
onslaught of issues look at just the
narrative around it you know um look at
you know even c certain statements from
Fouchy saying you know Anthony Fouchy
the guy like if you question me you're
questioning science it's
He said that and it's like wait a minute
okay who died and made you king you know
so the thing is when you just the
narrative for me was hard to like when I
see a narrative like that just like I
already pumped the brakes and it's it's
crazy to me a lot of doctors they're so
institutionalized they'll be like okay
it's fine it's fine it's fine but when
also you look into the data of this
stuff it's it a lot of the data is
skewed and doesn't make any sense you
know so um but it's not only the the the
vaccine that was issued the the the
COVID spike protein from the bug itself
from the virus itself is a problem and
it's a problem that people are starting
to feel more now
>> a question that I'm kind of curious on
is I have a I have a torminiscus and I I
have a bucket tear but it's torn in a
way in which it's fully functional I can
play sports walk run no issues
one of the things you mentioned earlier
was stem cells and I've learned that
stem cells is actually one of the ways
that you can potentially treat you
tendon tears and just pretty much repair
issues with, you know, I guess that are
traditionally, you know, pretty much
solved through like surgery. What's kind
of your thoughts on that? Is that
something that is going to be, you
think, going to be continuing continue
to use in the future? Is that the
future? What's kind of your thoughts on
stem cells and just using that instead
of just like traditional methods to
repair like ligaments and tendons?
>> I think stem cells are the one of the
greatest advancements in medicine. I I I
I think it's phenomenal.
um um stem cells, exoomes. Um
fortunately, one of the most published
men um in stem cells is a very very dear
friend of mine, uh Dr. Joshua Hair. I I
I looked this up actually last week.
He's cited on Google Scholar 67,000
times. Um he's one of the people that
pioneered injecting stem cells into the
heart to regenerate the heart. So yeah,
stem cells there's ex excellent data on
what it could do and it it is part of
the future a thousand% if the narrative
allows it to continue that way, right?
And [snorts] that's why Florida, I don't
know if you know, but now Florida uh has
adopted allowing to do stem cells under
certain conditions. Um
>> that used to be where people would have
to go out of the country Costa Rica and
all those places. Explain like how that
would work. Let's just say for example,
I wanted to repair my meniscus through
stem cell therapy. How would that
actually work? So, you go to an
orthopedist or you go to a doctor where
that's comfortable injecting the area.
Um, and then they they would do the
treatment for you. They I mean it's it's
actually pretty simple. I mean, they you
look at the stem cells. It looks like
water, you know, uh actually like the IV
or whatever, but it looks it looks very
simple. And then they inject the area uh
where you have the injury. Um you can
also do the IVs, but in a case like
that, it's better to inject the area,
right? the the you know just so so
there's more of a local approach but
it's actually pretty straightforward. Um
the meniscus too it's a little I'm I'm
not a specialist in that part at all but
you know the you the meniscus problem
with the menisci is that they certain
parts lack blood flow right so but the
again stem cells what they could do is
pretty insane you know in terms of
regenerative capacity it's it's the
future stem cells peptides exosomes like
that stuff mitigates a lot of surgeries
and things that are totally unnecessary.
Uh, I wanted to ask about um, you know,
obviously built an incredible business,
have had so much success, but following
you on social media and just getting to
know you, you know, you're you're also a
family man and uh, you built this
business next to your wife essentially.
>> I wanted to ask how important
>> under the watch of my wife. No. Okay.
[laughter]

>> How h how important was the decision of
marrying the right woman for you?
>> That's so funny. I posted that
yesterday. It was her birthday yesterday
and um I'm like, "Oh, I got to I got to
post." You know, it's just I I went into
that spirit of like I I I got to post.
And you know, I'm showering my son and
trying to post, but then when I locked
in, you know, and I was posting, that's
really what I'll I'll just kind of like
paraphrase what I said because it
answers your question. When I locked in
like all teareyed and writing that stuff
because it's like I I prayed for this
girl. I
imagined her. I designed her in my head
before she even like I knew she existed.
And I'm not saying this to sound pretty.
I designed it. Like there's a type of
person you want, right? Uh you want a 7
foot five girl? Probably not, [snorts]
right? You want a certain height? You
know, [laughter]
I'm being actually realist there.
There's a you know, and I designed her
in my head. I designed it like and I
really believed in it and I I really
avoided spending
spending time with the right person
while waiting for the correct person and
people a lot of people get that wrong
and you spend a lot of energy going in
the wrong direction. I prayed for
whatever and then she finally comes
exceeds my expectations. But here's the
crazy part that answers your question.
[snorts]

I realized the biggest gift the biggest
gift was for me because of who she makes
me be. Like I tell her this all the time
like you're the wife of a billionaire.
Not that I'm very far from being a
billionaire but the thing is how she
acts, how she moves, how she flows
through life. It's like damn, you know,
I'm like, it's we've been together for a
decade, you know, and then there's like
this unspoken word of these like
expectations that she has for me and
then that she thinks I'm a badass. I'm
like, you know, and sometimes like,
well, you know, my wife thinks I'm a
badass, so you know, it's like I got to
live up to this thing, you know, it's
this just like this crazy energy that
exists between us that allows me to
accomplish so much, man. I I can't
explain it to you. And I for a fact I
wouldn't have done any of this if if I
didn't have her or even another person.
No, it her she's like the elixir to the
formula, bro.
>> Beautiful. Again, another answer that
you gave in one of our interviews uh
when I asked you, you know, the number
one book that changed your life and you
said it was the Bible. Um and you talked
about how you prayed for, you know, the
woman that you ultimately, you know, had
become your wife and the mother of your
children. um what has the role of faith
played in your life and how important is
that to you in terms of your mindset,
the way that you think about life, the
way that you think about business and
just the role that God has played in
your life? I just want to get your
thoughts on faith and God and and the
impact it's had on you.
>> Yeah, it it has played a role and it's
playing even a bigger role now because
like somebody asked me once, um how do
you know you're always going to be at
the forefront of medicine? [snorts]
And I answered because I'm always going
to be looking at
God's medicine at the creator's
blueprint. I'm always going to be
looking into nature to understand
nature. Why do I love epigenetics?
Because I get to prove that your
lifestyle being changed, your lifestyle
being holy. I didn't say wholesome, I
said holy. Like a lifestyle aligned with
God will literally impact your DNA for
the better. And God will reward you with
a better, higher quality and longer
life. So I that's my blueprint. That's
my north star. I always follow that and
and forever will. So I'm my my brain is
always distilling through okay which
science aligns with him and which
science does not. And I'm not reading a
book. I'm not just and that's when
you're in the spirit. You're in the
flow, you know, living life through or
trying as much as possible to live life
through Christ. Um you get that
guidance. You see what I'm saying? And
then also as a business person and who I
am, my my reputation, who I am has
become so important to me. So important.
You know, sure, there's a bunch of
people that won't like me for the stuff
I'm saying here, you know, like there's
a whole community that won't like and
won't accept
>> rocks.
>> Exactly. But but the thing is, you know,
I I come with a heart of like servitude
and wanting to really help people um and
help our country, bro. You know, God,
family, and country, dude. like we need
that more and more and you I don't know
about you guys but I feel like people
are waking up more to this now people
are like good values and so forth it's
like people are like whoa you know this
hasn't been working out too much like
let's go back to old school stuff you
know and God Jesus is the center of that
and I say Jesus because a lot of times
people very and I don't say God because
like which God are you talking about I'm
talking about the creator my friend
talking creator and Jesus Christ man
that that that's the line of thinking
that sustains me fulfills fills me and
guides me, bro. And to tell you the
truth, I'm not even my my goal is not on
this earth. I'm focused on the the the
life to come. This is just a passage.
Your real life is still to come. So,
that right there fuels me. And, you
know, I'm I'm trying to work as hard as
possible
>> to to buy my plane ticket to the kingdom
of heaven.
>> You're investing in eternity. There you
go.
>> Invest in eternity. On that note, Dr. D,
we like to end these podcasts off with
two questions for our guest. I'll start
and Jack will finish us off. But Dr. D,
how old are you now?
>> 40.
>> 40. And if if me and you were to die
tomorrow and you had one more message to
leave with the younger generation, what
would that be?
>> Listen,
you you have you have a a blueprint that
God put inside of you. You have a design
that God put inside of you.
And you have this desire that I know you
feel what it is, but sometimes it gets
too noisy. And God whispers. He
whispers, "Silence your mind. Silence
your life. Listen to what that is and
seek it more than anything."
>> Beautiful. And uh if it was all said and
done tomorrow, how would you want to be
remembered?
>> They say you die two times, right? They
say um you die the first time your body
physically dies and then the second time
is when somebody says your name for the
last time. M [clears throat]
>> so I would want my name to echo through
eternity
by allowing the health message
to bring people closer to Christ because
a lot of people don't listen to him. A
lot of people don't look for him. But
when your health is in shambles,
you kind of tend to call out to God. And
if I could help people see that more
clearly, I think I would have fulfilled
my life's mission.
>> Amazing. I love that. Guys, thank you so
much for tuning in. That's a wrap on
today's podcast with the legendary Dr.
D. We're going to put all the links down
to his socials and his company down in
the bottom so that way you guys can
check him out. Be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content every
week, guys. We're bringing you guys the
most amazing business legends, the
pioneers that built companies and
different industries like healthcare,
tech, finance, you name it, are coming
to the school of hard knocks. So, we
can't wait to see you in the next
episode. And do yourself a massive
favor. If you go down, click the link in
the description, you can join the school
of mentors, which is the number one
entrepreneur community and network in
the world, where you get direct access
to live calls that we host every week
with eight, nine, and 10 figureure
entrepreneurs that you've seen on the
school of hard knocks. So, we can't wait
to see you on the inside and in the next
episode. We'll see you guys there.