You didn't come from a lot of money. A
lot. None. No. You were on food stamps. Yeah. Yeah. For me as a kid, I hated
being poor. I mean, I literally hated it. What do those initial steps look
like to start building that career and start building that path out? First, I
think it start with mindset. I don't want my kids to be that way. I don't
want to live that way. Making a little bit of money. I was like, damn, I got
money. You know, it felt good. What do you see as like the big opportunity
today for those that are listening that maybe want to get into AI? So, it's not
like, uh, AI is going to put all these people out of jobs. No, not creative
people, not founders and entrepreneurs. It's not going to put them out of job.
You gave me one of my favorite business quotes that I've ever heard in regards
to marketing. Everybody needs you. They just don't know you yet. If you have the
goods, everybody should be knocking down your door to get to you once they
discover who you are and it's your right audience. I would have told young TJ not
to be afraid of critique or failure. People are going to talk about you
anyway. Whether you're winning or losing, they're going to talk about you,
bro. That's a bar. That's fast. What's going on everybody and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks podcast. I'm James. I'm here with Jack
and Josh and we've got an incredible guest for you guys today out here in
Beverly Hills with business mogul Todd Johnson. Todd, you've built a whole
bunch of different companies from tech services to construction, real estate,
supplements. You you've had your foot in kind of the game in just about every
industry. Yes, I I have. I have. I've uh been doing this for a long time. So, and
I mean I'm I'm an entrepreneur, which you know, which means I'm an artist. We
love to create. So, yeah. Absolutely. Now, could you kind of let the viewers
know a little bit about your upbringing and ultimately your turning point to
financial freedom cuz you didn't come from a lot of money. You grew up you you
were on you grew up you were on food stamps. Yeah. Could you tell them what
was that turning point and kind of just your background and your story getting
into entrepreneurship and you know embarking on building tons of companies?
I turning point is, you know, I think um as a kid I I grew up in the south and
grew up in a environment that wasn't, you know, wasn't cool. It was a bad
time, right? Crack was happening. There was a crack epidemic in the
neighborhoods and and all that sort of thing. And uh I, you know, grew up in a
household that was uh common for my neighborhood, which you know, just had
my mom and you know uh that was it pretty much, right? Um, you know, I I
got to know my dad at some point, uh, which is a long story, but I got to know
him at some point. Um, but, uh, there wasn't a lot of people that you looked
up to in terms of business, right? The people that you, uh, looked up to and
could admire would be really ballers or or or musicians, artists, that kind of
thing. But for me, as a kid, I hated being poor. I mean, I literally hated
it. And so I used to have to go to the uh the grocery store to pick up
something that my mom would tell me to pick up. And that experience was really
bad. It was really bad because she would give me food stamps and I would have to
give them to someone and the way that person looked at me when I gave them the
food stamps and the way I felt when I gave them the food stamps just didn't
sit right with me. I didn't like it. And so I would do everything I could to try
to figure out a way to not have to carry food stamps. So my mom would send me to
the store and then I would go try to find odd jobs, cut grass, rake yards,
whatever it was. Um we would sell like, you know, bottles of of coke and stuff
like that, you know, like uh that was finished bottles and things like that. I
would do all those things and get my um I'd get a weapon when I got home because
it took me too long and mom was trying to cook dinner, you know, but I didn't
have to uh hand in the food stamps and that feeling of being able to do it on
my own and not having to have this thing uh felt really good to me. Were you ever
exposed to somebody or just a lot of wealth? cuz you know ultimately like you
said it was almost that lack of money that you had that wanted you to and kind
of inspired you to to hate it right cuz you know if you hadn't really been
exposed to it at an early age then maybe you wouldn't have necessarily like like
hated to be poor you know what I mean cuz if that's kind of all you knew like
were you ever exposed to it um wealth yes no I wasn't exposed to wealth but I
was exposed to ambitious ambitious people I have an aunt who never finished
uh like high school, can barely write, right? But she was ambitious and she
would figure out how to make money, right? She would figure out how to make
money somehow. So, so she was a little bit a lot my inspiration, right? Uh but
that wasn't wealthy, right? Like she had multiple jobs, you know, kind of thing.
She was always hustling. Um uh I think that the closest exposure I had to it
was back where I grew up you had sort of the poor neighborhood and you know
reality is was a black neighborhood and the line was right there in my backyard
went up to it you know so if you went across the street or or you know on the
other street then um it was a more uh middle class neighborhood looked better
and I ended up working for those folks. uh they owned uh Tony's Pizza back in
the day and so that was my neighbor and so the lion just happened to be right
where I was at. So I could see that but uh and I saw that they live differently
uh did some things differently. Um their leisure activity was different. So I was
exposed to a little bit of that I think. But um but uh where I came from it it
was it was just uh yeah it was real hood stuff. It wasn't really um um um the the
inspiration was maybe TV or something, you know. So, the the the pain of your
situation made you want more and you're like, look, I don't want this life. I
want more for myself and more for my family. So, how did you kind of get that
inspiration to take those next steps of like, okay, I'm going to start to figure
my way out. And what are those next and or what do those initial steps look like
to start building that career and start building that path out? Yeah. First, I
think it start with mindset. And so, because
I literally detested like the food stamps and and detested the government
cheese and and all the stuff, right? Um, I think that changed my mindset. That
gave me the motivation that I don't want my kids to be that way. I don't want to
live that way. Um, and so I just had this thing where I I didn't I didn't
want that. So, it started there, you know, and then once I started like
cutting grass or raking yards and making a little bit of money, I was like, damn,
I got money, you know, it felt good. And so, I would always do everything I could
to always have money in my pocket. I enjoyed the um the flexibility and the
freedom of of not having to ask mom for stuff. And so for you, where did where
was that first entrepreneurial venture that you sort of dove into that you were
just like, hey, this this is where I want to be an entrepreneur. This is uh
my first like real business that I started. What was that for you? Um I
mean beyond the stuff as a kid, right? Like beyond all of that. Uh I think I
started like a little travel business, right? And there was this thing where
you could uh get people to sign up um for uh travel discounts and travel
things. And I remember buying a dot matrix printer back in the day. You guys
probably don't even know what a dot matrix printer is, right? No
idea. No idea. I've never heard of that. I know Lotus I know Lotus 123, but I
don't Oh, that's hilarious. So, a dot matrix
printer had like a ribbon and it made noise when it printed and said, "Yep."
Okay. Right. You see in the movie? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, man. This is crazy. I'm old.
Really old. Now, you guys are really young. That's what it is. That's it. So,
I bought a printer. I bought this printer and I would create flyers and I
would make flyers and it would slow to print back then, right? So, I would hear
this printer going off all night long. as soon as it jammed and it jammed
often. You would hear it go ch at the end and then I would have to go fix it,
you know, get up in the middle of night and fix it. So, almost like an alarm and
uh and so that was my first business just putting out flyers and doing that
and and making money that way. And and the next one was at the tech services
company that you had built. started one before that which was uh uh assembling
computers and um you know installing chips and like back then you'd buy the
component parts and put the computer together and then help people sort of
you know learn how how what was your strategy and maybe even today for like
identifying those different problems or industries to go after or is it just
like you know you see somebody else who's kind of doing it and you get
inspired or is it just like hey there's a need for this here like what's your
kind of inspiration on that because because I'm curious because again you
have been in variety like a wide range of industries. It's not like you were in
tech services, you know, then went to software in a kind of a different
vertical of tech, but like you've you jumped around, you know. Yeah. Yeah.
I've done a lot of different things. I I think some has been opportunistic, you
know. I think the construction company was purely opportunistic. I was doing
some stuff and then there was an opportunity and I could solve a problem
for someone that I uh developed um I knew in our social circle. And so that
was that. But a lot of things had been sort of things that were trending or
things that you knew was going to be a thing. Just like right now, we know AI
almost no matter where which way you jump in, a blind guy can jump in and go,
I'm going to get really really good at, you know, uh, voice agents. I'm going to
get really good on design. I'm going to get really, really good at vibe
development. whatever it is, if you decide you're going to jump into that
thing and go full in fully in, there's going to be a lot of opportunity for
you, right? So, I think that's where um that's how I moved in my career when I
jumped into uh you know, went to school and and did the computer science study
and all that stuff. It was because I knew that was the move, you know, um and
sort of was no way to lose. So, it wasn't like I was just, you know, just
brilliant. And I wasn't even that lucky. It was uh with regard to that part I was
lucky in other ways but I wasn't lucky in terms of choosing the things it was
obvious you know sort of obvious things to choose like right now you know what's
an obvious thing to choose AI which part of AI doesn't
matter choose something get really good at it and figure out a way to monetize
it I'm curious what were people telling you when you were growing up like hey
this is what you need to do to to make it out and to be successful I know you
went to to school and eventually also the military. What are what was the path
that you were told growing up? And is there any misconceptions? They were
like, "Look, they got it all wrong." Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, people
were like, "You're too uptight, man. You're too serious. You know, you know,
relax, have fun, you know, you know, all those things. Here, smoke this weed, you
know, uh, you know, whatever it was." They were like, you know, do these
things that wasn't on a path for me, you know, and so, you know, that was the
environment that I grew up in. So, um, you know, there wasn't a lot of folks
that were just kind of killing it, right? Or or really really
focused. In retrospect, a lot of people made their way and done their thing, you
know, but uh um I think I had a a girlfriend, high school girlfriend that
was like killing it, you know, she ended up becoming a valadictorian and all that
sort of stuff. So, you know, that was sort of my partner in crime, if you
will, you know, in terms of a mindset, in terms of let's go do something cool.
Let's go figure some stuff out, you know. So, but beyond that, you know,
people were pulling you in another direction, you know, uh in terms of my
neighborhood, you know. So, um, uh, but I'm also a little bit, you
know, in some ways I'm really lucky that I had this like,
um, hate for not having you know? I I hated it, you know, and and not
having it and living the way we lived. Um, I had to, uh, uh, I don't know where
that came from, you know. I don't, you know, my my brother wasn't like that,
you know. uh sister wasn't like that. So, uh uh um I think my cousin became a
little bit like that later, but u I think that's just, you know, kind of the
luck of the draw that was already in me, you know. So, I can't take credit for
that. I think that's just something God gave me and put in me for some reason,
you know. Yeah, absolutely. And James has brought up the tech services
company. Would love to kind of dive in how you started that and and and it
sounds like that really kicked off your entrepreneurial career. Yeah, it it did.
the um I started a tech company. Um I um so I was going to school for computer
science and you know I was studying all that stuff and um and I was getting out
of the military and so when I was about to get out of the military I didn't know
you know how my skills was going to translate outside the military. I got
really lucky in the military and I had this boss that would give me a lot of
opportunities. he would go, "Go do this or go solve this problem." You know,
with tech, he would go, "Write this code or do this. You can do it. Just just try
it." And so that helped me uplevel my skill. So, um, but when I was going to
get out of the military, uh, I wanted to make what a general made. And at the
time, I think a general made like $82,000 a year or 88, something like
that. I remember it was like a long time ago because they make a lot more now. Uh
but I remember I was Damn, I just dated myself, didn't I? I wasn't supposed to
do that. But uh but uh but when I got out
of the military, for whatever reason, I wanted to make what a general made
because I I realized that I couldn't become a general by being enlisted and
work through the ranks. And once I figured that out, um I was like, man,
this is no path. I can't stay in the military, right? Uh because prior to
that, you don't know that. You just think I can go in, I'm gonna work my way
up and I'll get to the top. But that's not really possible. So once I decided I
was going to get out, I would go interview on jobs. When I interviewed on
jobs, I would always ask for something crazy in terms of money. I would ask for
what the general was making, right? And the guys would all look at me and they
would go, "Who is this guy?" you know, and they look at my resume and they
like, bro, you know, no, you know, you're not worth that. You can't pay you
that. You know, that's how and sometimes they would be nice. That's, you know,
the position doesn't call for that amount, you
know? And so they would do different things, right? But I would always ask
them, well, what would it take for me to make that amount, right? And they would
always give me an answer, right? And so I came up with this concept of a
forward-looking resume. And what that was would I would take the resume and
then whatever they told me I needed to have on my resume to get that to make
that amount of money, I would put it on my resume, right? And I would highlight
it as like not being, you know, true, being bold and but it looked really
good, you know, and then I would go try to learn that. Oh, they said I need to
learn about financial systems or code, right? So be like, "Oh, let me go code
that," you know. So I would go work on stuff, you know, and then I would go to
another interview and the same thing. Well, what would it take, you know, and
they would give me the road map and that became my forwardlooking resume. And a
lot of people I work with now, I tell them, create a forward-looking resume.
Look at it. It's going to be powerful because once you see what you look like
on paper, you go, "Wow, that's amazing." And then it you're like, "Oh, all I have
to do is get to that place. I'm learning this tool away from making this true and
I can check it off." Right? I said I was going to do um three of these sort of
programs. You're three programs away from checking that off. So that's, you
know, what I did, you know, getting out of the military to be able to sort of uh
get my first job and get the skills for that was required to build my first
business. But it was getting a job, right, to then grow in those particular
skills so that um I could eventually um when the opening came build my my
business. I love it. And you know, we were actually just having a conversation
with one of your business partners and and they were telling us that you know
what you've done for them has inspired them to you know, want way more for
themselves. in particular talking about like the amount of money that you know
they would like hope to make in a situation right and I look at just a
person as a whole maybe you know a lot of people their their goal their epitome
of success is I want to make $100,000 a year I want to make six figures whereas
like you will instill that mindset in them it's like dude go try and make a
million go try and make 10 million and worst case right shoot for the stars aim
for the moon why do you think that way are you just a big advocate of people
unlocking their you know human potential or kind of what is it in you that is
kind of, you know, proactive to kind of go after people to to want more for
themselves. Yeah. You're talking about JJ, right? So Jay, she uh it's funny.
She used to always be like, um, yeah, we're going to make X amount, you know,
and coming from where she came from, she thought it was cool, you know, to make
100,000, 200, $500,000 a month. I was like, yeah, how about here's our goal, 2
million. She's like, get out of here. And she was like, get out of here. And
then she started to believe, right? So I'm a really really big believer in
vision, right? The things that you can see, the things that you can articulate,
the things that you can write down right clearly, and the things that you can
articulate to someone. If you can do that, you're really, really close to
being able to achieve it, right? And um you know, there's a lot of people you
talk to and I can say, "Hey, I I have 10 resources. I'll let you use them.
what are you going to do to to grow your business or to multiply your business?
They don't even know because they have no vision that can support that. Okay,
how about if I came in and gave you money for your
business? What what would you do with that money? I don't even know, you know,
because because the vision oftentimes is too small, right? And they don't have
one that can support really where they want to go. So for me, vision is it's
all about vision for me, right? and um and and you see that in you know in the
most foundational the most important things in life it starts there and so
that's it really you know um if if I said to her oh let's make $15 million a
month you know wait a minute maybe I don't even believe that you know what I
mean maybe I don't believe that and I need to like hang out with somebody
that's already made you know uh $30 million a month and then maybe they'll
inspired me to be able to go, "Yeah, that 15 million is is is is possible,
you know." Um, but yeah, so it's it's all vision, bro. Like, it's all just,
you know, vision and believing and stuff. And, you know, we go through
times when there's times when we stop believing. There's times when I think,
uh, you know, many founders, many entrepreneurs, anybody who's been really
successful have uh sort of what do you call that when uh imposttor syndrome,
right? where you're like, uh, is it really happening? Is am I
really that good? Am I, you know? Yeah, bro, you are. Just keep keep it up. Keep
it up. But sometimes you go through those things and um and which is things
you have to get out of because when you're in those places, it um it
suppresses your vision. It suppresses your ability to believe at a um in a in
a bigger way. you know, we're here and you know, um, you know, last time we
talked, we walked out here and there's no way for you to unsee it. Just no way.
It's no way. You know, the closest neighbor is not now. He's not Mark
Wahberg now, but his house is right there. The closest one, my closest
neighbor right there is Kanye West. Like literally across, you know, across my my
thing is Kanye right there. It's uh Samsung, you know? So, so, so I mean
like when you see this stuff, you know, that's why I call this place the humble
manner, right? Because I'm like, damn, imposttor syndrome like crazy. You know,
because it's like, man, these guys are like have done things as amazing. You
know, one of the biggest lessons that uh I like to instill in, you know, younger
entrepreneurs, I'm a super young entrepreneur, but just people trying to
get to that next level, and I've been very blessed and fortunate, is you can
only grow to what you're exposed to. And and you you have to go touch the
Rolls-Royce. You have to go see, you know, a backdrop like that to really
understand like what's possible, what somebody else is able to done. And if
it's kind of that mindset that like if if this person's achieved it, why not
me? Why not me? You know, you put on earth, you know. Uh why not me? You
know. Yeah. Yeah. It's true. It's true. It's It's funny you say that, you know,
because I've never heard anyone say that. You said you can't achieve what
you're not. No, you can only grow to what you're exposed to. Yeah. So, that's
that's that's that's really really interesting. And it's um where that's
relevant in my life is when I um moved to Washington DC. I went in the military
at 17. I went to Europe for a while and then I ended up in DC, got married at 19
and I'm in DC and I'm trying to figure it out and I remember being in DC and
you've heard of PTOIC, Maryland. Yeah. Oh yeah. Okay. Oh yeah. One of the
wealthiest, you know, um in the country. There's somebody in the DMV. We were
just talking about Great Falls, Virginia. Great Falls. I was about to
say this. Growing up, I I'd always go through I I would just get in my car and
I would go through the really nice neighborhoods and I was just like, man,
what do these people do for a living? Yeah. You know, and it's so funny that I
mean, at the time, I had no idea that this is the channel that we would end up
founding where we literally go ahead and do that and ask the most successful
business leaders and thought leaders what they did to become successful. But
like that's literally what I would do growing up is I was like, look, I have
so much respect for my parents and the life they've been able to provide for
me, but I want more for myself. I don't know how I'm necessarily going to get
there. Yeah. And I would just get in my car and just drive through these
neighborhoods and just and just envision myself like one day I'm gonna drive a
car like that. I'm gonna have a be in a house like that. I love that. It's if
you look at the the DMV area, like the top 12 counties with the highest average
median income. Like I think like eight or six of them are all in the DMV. It
just that whole hover around DC like the average person makes like 80 90 grand.
It's crazy. It It is. And I was like you, right? When I was 19, I would drive
around, drive around, and I found this neighborhood in PTOIC, Maryland. And I
found this neighborhood. It was like life-changing really. Right. I found
this neighborhood. I pulled into this neighborhood. And on the left side there
was a a guy, a butler. Like I never seen a butler. Guy was dressed. He's a
butler, right? And he was like this. He was all like like at a Batman movie, you
know, like the guy, you know? And then there was a kid and there was like a
moat. Well I'm from I've never seen a moat. So, so, so there was this
little kid dressed in a sailor suit and he was paddling around this little moat.
And how did I know it was a moat? Because I had never seen one. It wasn't
a pond, you know, wasn't a river. It had to be a moat, you know what I mean? So I
was like, you know, so he was like paddling around and the butler was
little and me and my then wife, I'm 19, go,
"What the hell? This is crazy." Like, and we drove through this neighborhood
and the houses there were crazy. Like some of the houses were like beautiful
homes and one of them had like a mini home that looked just like the big
beautiful home just smaller, about the size of this one. you know, you know, it
was it was small relative to this gigantic thing. And so I'm driving in
that neighborhood and I'm like, "Wow," you know, and so I drive down this one
cul-de-sac and I see this one home and I'm like, "Whoa, this is this is it, you
know." And I would go down the culde-sac and I would like turn around and watch
the house expand in my rearview mirror, right? And in my side view mirror. I
would do that over and over again. There was times I would go to sleep, you know,
in this guy's culde-sac, you know. Later I find out that um who's the
guy the um the uh the former owner of the u the commanders or the Redskins uh
Dan Snder. Dan Snyder. Yeah. It was his home to the left and the home that I had
fallen in love with was this other home. So, this billionaire's home is here, you
know, and I'm sitting there looking at this home and eventually I bought land
up in Annapolis and I'm building and the story's getting long, but I'm building
this home, right? I'm building this home and I go through one designer built
designed this home and I'm like, "No, throw it away." Right? Didn't like it.
Found another designer and we're designing this home, right? I had
forgotten about this other place that, you know, I wasn't going there anymore.
Um, and then he said to me, "I got to show you something." Right. He said,
"Just come come with me." And he had me meet him someplace. And then he drove me
in to this neighborhood, which is the neighborhood that I would go month after
month, year after year looking at. And he showed me a house and said, "I think
you'll like us to design something like this." So it was so embedded in my head
that I was literally designing this like in real
life. and didn't even realize it and I wasn't trying to I wasn't you know I had
forgotten about the house a little bit you know it had been some years now and
I had forgotten about the house but so vision is so important you know and so I
had you know so what you were doing I was doing the same thing and had a very
powerful experience and so that's why I know the forward looking resume you know
not being able to unsee stuff being connected with people that is going to
show you the world in a completely different way is something that's going
to change your life. So, I love it. And you've got one of the craziest supercar
collections I've ever seen. You know, you've collected just about every
possible sports car that anybody can think of. I wanted to ask you, was was
there one particular car that you bought that represented a milestone in your
life that you're very proud of? If there's one that you can kind of think
about or maybe a couple that you had bought um that represented like an
important season in your life or a really big milestone that you achieved.
Um, I think when I bought my first sports car, you know, um, because I had
a goal and I used to carry this little Hot Wheels little toy car with me all
the time, you know, through the military, hide it and carry it with me.
Um, so when I bought that car, that was like that was it. That was the cat's
meow, you know. Um, for sure. Um I think um uh my 812 comp, you know, which is
the lime green one, that was pretty cool because it
represented um sort of um you know, some people call it crazy, but the process
that you get into when you start to build a relationship with uh like a
brand like Ferrari and you have to buy this car and build this kind of
relationship and all those sorts of things. And it represented maturity
because that's not my vibe. You know, my vibe is, hey, I got the money. Let me
just go buy it like you can go do with some other brands. But that one
represented, you know, me sort of following the process, patience, you
know, learning and understanding legacy and tradition and the value that's
wrapped into that. And so, uh, so that's a pretty special car for me. I'm very
curious. Right. So you you've you've talked a lot about forward thinking,
building that resume, getting the skills necessary and and you were like, look,
you know, I've I've got the skills necessary. I went to school. I've got
some experience in tech. I'm going to go out and start my own tech company. And
you've talked a lot about the practical skills. And I feel like a lot of people
that go into entrepreneurship have like the practical skills. Oh, I know how to
write a fa run a Facebook ad. I know how to write some copy. I can just run a
business now. But as an entrepreneur, you realize there's a lot more skills
that are needed and actually to run a business. Oh yeah. And so when you were
first going into entrepreneurship, if you could talk to young TJ and give him
one piece of advice and maybe it's about building systems, learning leadership,
what would you tell young TJ when he's getting started in this building this
tech company besides just the practical skills? Um, well, it's building a bigger
team. Like, you know, I think, you know, I look at you guys, I go, man, this is
awesome. you guys have built a pretty cool team so that you can you can you
know e execute like in a bigger way. Um, I would have told younger TJ to have a
bigger vision, you know, because I just wanted to be better than this one
company, you know, that company wasn't so big, you know, at the end of the day,
you know, I wish I'd had a bigger target.
Um I think um um I would have told young TJ
u to take more risk, you know, not to be afraid of of critique or failure. Um I
think those were are the things that I would have um I I wish I could have gone
in and whispered in my ear, "Bro, just I don't care. you know, you fail, it's
okay. You know, people are gonna talk about you anyway. Whether you're winning
or losing, they're gonna talk about you, bro. So, you're not gonna get past it.
That's that that's the truth right there. And something that I think that a
lot of people need to hear is like whether you're doing well or you're not
doing well, people are always going to talk and all you got to do is just put
the blinders on and just stay in your own lane and just pour gas pour gas down
the throats. You know, you got to just keep going hard. Like that's something
that I think I I really commend like our team on especially like James is like
look like it's like it's always go you know there is no foot off the gas. It's
like because look if you the moment you take the foot off the gas is the is the
the moment someone's trying to is coming to take your spot and uh you can't let
that happen. You know you always got to stay hungry. Yeah. I love that. Be more
paranoid. Absolutely. I I love when talking about
you're like I wish I had more vision. I wish I took more risks. the the vision
piece it reminds me of in Think and Grow Rich. There's this chapter in there
where it basically says if you want to obtain a certain amount of money, all
you have to write down is be like, "Okay, by this date I'm going to have
this amount of money, this is the the steps I'm going to do to get there." And
and then basically it's said you repeat it day and day and you you say like this
is how long it's going to take. And so you have to literally force yourself to
think of ways, okay, like what do I have to do in order to obtain that amount of
money by that date? Um are those some of the tactics that you used like going up
and thinking of the vision and what you're trying to put together? Yeah,
maybe not exactly like that, but uh the similar similar purpose and function,
right, is is thinking about it because you
you can you force it? Can you not force it? It's one of those things I'm trying
to figure out because I have kids, right? I have them say something, you
know, every day before school. I make them say it. Make them say it. But I
also realize that until they get it in their bones and believe it, it doesn't
matter how many times I make them say it. So if that person is going, let me
go through this exercise and say this thing and say this
thing, not unless they believe it. And so that's where, you
know, you know, um, faith is everything, you know, it
really comes down to it comes down to that. And if you can't believe it,
you're saying it, but you don't believe it. You know, you know, you're lying to
yourself. You can't say it. You can't believe it. You know, so it comes down
to that what you believe. And so, so do I do it in a different way, right? Um,
and you know, because I can give you multiple stories where, you know, this
this thing that I put down, I remember when I bought my first Aston Martin, you
know, and then, um, it was black, black on black. It was great. And,
uh, and I had bought the car and was in love with this car, right? Uh, I thought
it was amazing, you know, just what I wanted, my favorite brand at the time.
And um I went back looking and I found this picture of the same car and this
was the car I wanted. I just forgot that I wanted it cuz I, you know, I digested
it. I put it in my bones. So those things act like a magnet and they just
pull you towards it. Pulls you towards it. the things that you believe whether
it's negative or positive the things that you
believe you know you can't escape that stuff you know the stuff that you
believe you know you know we were talking about you know some things I say
hey do you wear you know do you wear a watch to to check your you know your
heart rate and stuff you're like no man I don't do that I don't need to think
about that I'm good I can't be surrounded by the thought of something
occurring right so you I'm good you know and so There could be some guy going,
"No, man. You need to do that." Like, "No, man. I'm good. You know, get out of
here. I don't need to hear that. I'm I'm way good, you know, and so what you
believe you're is you're you're just going to attract." So, I I believe that,
you know, uh that think and grow rich uh sort of platitude. Did you ever deal
with any doubt yourself? Yeah, all the time. How'd you overcome it? All the
time, man. I mean, that's a constant battle, bro. It's a constant battle. So,
when you kind of are met with that self-doubt, how what's kind of your
strategy to kind of talk yourself out of that or get out of that rut? So, first
of all, it's kind of like a muscle, right? Like you're pretty buff, you
know? I don't think people really realize how buff you are, bro. Like, you
know, cuz you be like dressing, but look at this guy's forearms, man. This guy's
buff, you know? So, it's like a muscle. You build this muscle and you're what
you are, right? So, you're that, you know? So, what you can lift, you can
lift, right? So, so you know if you're going to the gym and somebody wants you
to lift 85 pounds on the bench, you know, can you do it? Yeah. You know,
another guy is like struggling with it, right? Because they don't have that
muscle. They haven't built it up. So, from to the outside world, it looks
like, man, this guy, you know, has it together. He's, you know, um, you know,
has this strong belief system. Yes, it's it's to this level. But I'll give you an
example. Um, I struggle to believe that I could own
um um 777 jet, right? Cuz I I can't go buy one
and and and do that now, right? And and and I beat myself up about that because
I can go buy jet but not a seven seven, right? But
Trump got one, you know, other people have one. Why? Why can't you buy one?
Because your belief system is not there. So therefore, the
activity that you align yourself with isn't there, you know. So yeah, I do
struggle. It's just different levels, you know. For me, it's it's different
levels. I'm like struggling, man. Damn. Yeah, you know, you don't need a 777,
you know, like that don't make sense, you know. And then there's somebody else
saying, you don't need that many cars, you know, or somebody else saying you
don't need a house that big. you live there by yourself, you know, kind of
thing. So, you know, we all have our there's levels to it. You know, if I was
more of an Olympian, I'd be like, "Yeah, I can get that damn
777," you know, but that's, you know, it's there's levels to things, you know,
and so um so yeah, I do struggle with uh self-doubt. Um, it's just that my
self-doubt is, um, you know, um, can I make X amount
per day versus what somebody else is struggling with? You know, how many how
many businesses do you own now? I don't know. It's kind of like cars. I don't
really count them. Um, but we um um, so um, really less than 10
Yeah. So, but you're you're in a variety of different industries. You know, you
started out in tech. You've done stuff in construction, retail, I'm sure some
other industries as well that I don't even know of. And, you know, we've
interviewed, you know, thousands of of millionaires on top on on the school of
hard knocks. And one thing that I've noticed from the most successful
entrepreneurs that we interview is that they all believe in vertical
integration. And something that I think is really interesting about you is is
you're actually creating businesses in in different industries. And I'm curious
as though why instead of just sticking to tech, which is like your original
background and your roots, why go out and and build but do stuff construction,
retail, and all these other industries. Well, they probably believe in vertical
integration because it's the path of least resistance. It's probably easier.
It's more efficient. Probably makes a lot of sense, right? I'm probably just
not that smart. I'm like, I'm really that founder entrepreneur guy that uh
that can get distracted and the the shiny object, right, and the
opportunity. And I'm really a creator, right? And so I've struggled to be a
businessman, you know, and that sounds funny, you know, um given, you know, the
success sort of money and, you know, that that I've been able to make. Um but
I'm really still the founder guy. I'm still the creator guy. I'm still the guy
that wants to build stuff. So if I was to look at it from a vertical
integration part though, uh where I sit is on the marketing strategy side. And
so the marketing side and the business strategy side works across the
e-commerce stuff that I'm doing. It works across the the the digital
marketing stuff that we do. It works across the retail stuff that we do. and
it works, you know, on the um on the real estate stuff that we do. Um so the
other thing about that is that um for me, a lot of people think, hey, I got to
do what I'm passionate about, right? And this thing that I'm really, really,
really good at. I was never passionate about tech at all. You know, I'm I'm
pretty passionate about what's going on with AI because it's just exciting,
right? And the opportunity and and the things that we can do. It's kind of like
going from there was no internet and now there's an internet. It goes from there
was no um um personal computers and now there's personal computers. You know,
it's it's that massive of a change. And it's really weird to see
people not, you know, adopting it adopting it in that way, right? I mean
people are doing little things and it's like I know chat
TPT bro that's just like scratching the surface you know so um for me from a
vertical I think it's marketing I think it's business strategy and so uh my
ability to go help people build their businesses right uh and see all the pain
points and stuff is what I consider my vertical integration is being able to
have a marketing team and go okay apply it to
you know, um, but I'm also like the mechanic where I don't work on my own
stuff. I like working on other people's stuff. When, uh, when I first
interviewed you, you gave me probably one of my favorite business quotes that
I've ever heard in regards to marketing that
everybody needs you. They just don't know you yet. How did you discover that
concept? And and when did you realize how important that that that really is?
Well, I don't know. I think when we were doing uh the publishing business when we
were doing the publishing business and we were trying to market you know JJ
right and it was like um wait every media outlet needs a story right they
they they but they don't know who you are but they need your story right every
one of them want to u talk to your interview but they just don't know you
and that's why you're not getting these interviews right and then wait a
All these women need to lose weight in natural, fast, healthy weight
loss, so they buy your product, but they don't know who you are, right? So, your
job is to figure out who those people are and tell them your story. And a lot
of times we don't do a really good job of figuring out who those people are and
then um um having our story um packaged well and then being loud enough about
our story. So um so my concept is if you have the goods that everybody should be
knocking down your door to get to you once they discover who you are and it's
your right audience. So everybody needs you. They just don't know who you are.
You guys, you guys ought to be doing PR, bro. Like, you know, massive PR, you
know, because um you know, what you guys are doing is so inspiring and so
amazing. And especially, you know, the family element and all that sort of
stuff. It's like, why wouldn't they be interviewing you, you know, on on on the
local news channel and and whatnot? And here's how you work together as a
family. You can cut that story up in so many different slices. So, everybody
needs you. they just don't know who you are, you know. So, that's sort of where
that comes from. One thing that I know that you mentioned in our interview with
you is that there's this thing, this opportunity going on right now called
the gray tsunami. Can you dive into that a little bit and what what's the
opportunity there for for everybody listening? Yeah, the gray tsunami. So,
there's a lot of baby boomers that have built businesses and um you know, pool
companies, plumbing companies, vending companies. They've built a lot of
different um uh businesses and they have no place to uh nowhere to pass their
business down to because their kids don't want it. Their kids wants to go
off. They want to go off and do social media and do some other stuff, right?
They don't want to go take over the family's plumbing business, right? So
these businesses have uh um long history, good cash flow, good customer
base, but the person is sick, wants to retire, is you know getting a divorce,
um just don't want to do what they're they're doing. So there's a opportunity
because there's a surplus of those businesses that are available that
they've spent a lifetime building these businesses or a long time building these
businesses, but they haven't prepared to exit the business or to sell the
business. And so there's a an amazing opportunity for people to not just start
businesses, but to to uh to buy those business and to put them together to
make bigger businesses. Yeah. I have a quick followup on that. So if somebody
wanted to get into that with like zero money, I know that they could go get an
SBA loan and and work that out with the person selling the business. Do you know
if whoever I know it's probably case by case ba b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b
b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b bas, but for anybody like selling
that business off trying to exit, why wouldn't they just want like a cash sum
up front? Like why would they do business with somebody getting into it
with zero with an SBA loan? Yeah. No. So if they were getting an SBA loan, they
do get money, right? So So essentially there's a lot of creative financing in
those those situations because there's not a lot of options for these folks.
They're not big enough for PE firms maybe, right? So PE firms aren't fishing
there because PE firms the work that they have to do, the due diligence that
they have to do to acquire a business is so heavy that they have um they have uh
minimums, you know, that the business has to be a certain amount of before
they would even look at the business. So that leaves these other businesses to to
to people like us to go out and get those businesses. So, so if you were to
get uh uh uh SBA 7A loan, right, um the the founder would get cash. They
might not get all of their cash that they want. Sometimes they do, right? But
generally they're not going to get all of the cash. They might get 80% of their
cash. They might get 60% of their cash and then they get some sort of earnout.
Uh there's other times where um uh and a lot of other times where you
can get the business without a a loan, right? Because you're
using the cash flow of that business to pay the guy out, right? And a lot of
these folks, and I've been in a situation where I've had a business that
I was so tired of that I would have given it away. All I wanted you to do is
come take the business and make sure my people had a job. I mean, I did I didn't
want to lose face, right? I didn't want to fail. I wanted somebody to take over
the business, make sure all these people have a job and they can feed their kids
and take care of their insurance. Um, so literally it's situational, but uh
sometimes people are just hitting the wall and they need to go and um to get
the money paid to them over time is a lot better than not getting anything at
all. So, uh there's a lot of ways you can be creative in that.
So, do you think I I know, you know, buying businesses is a huge opportunity.
Yeah. But another opportunity that's out there is franchising. Yeah. Where
someone can go in and pretty much purchase a a playbook that's already
proven to a certain extent. Yeah. Do you think the average consumer or someone
that's looking to get into entrepreneurship should look to buy a
business or go into franchising? Yes. And yes. Which one's Which one's your
favorite? You got you gota you got you got to take I like I like buying a
business but uh but it's nuanced and it's not as easy right because you have
to find the business you have to build a pipeline of business or or or work with
a business broker and then you know buy the business right and and you know it
takes a long time to negotiate with people and all that sort of stuff
franchise is easy because it's turnkey I want to buy a subway or I want to buy a
mini the a mini subway or whatever it is I want to buy this business and it's
very clear what the rules are. There's something called FDD, a franchise um
what is franchise uh delivery document is a disclosure document. Disclosure
document franchise disclosure document has all the rules in it. So it's very
very clear of what you do, what it's going to cost you, what your rules are,
and how you have to set things up. So for people um I I think for most people
that's easier than going out and buying a business right now it's still starting
up but um the quality of the franchise is going to dictate how how easy that's
going to be to start up. Are there any business models or are there any
businesses that you would not touch with a 10-ft pole in today's world like like
that you maybe have dabbled in or had some experience and you're like yeah I'm
not I'm not messing with that that business model again. Are there any you
know businesses that you just would not touch? Um some of the services
businesses like um um you know uh uh delivery type businesses that depends on
someone's expertise to go do something. That's tough because everybody wants to
be an entrepreneur. You're investing in getting all these customers and they go
in and they are, you know, they're dealing with the customer directly and
you know it's too easy for them to say, "Hey, this is my customer now. This is
my customer now." Like I'm the captain now, you know. So, so those type of
businesses are businesses that I wouldn't um get in because I don't see a
pathway and there's been a couple models that I've seen not work on on a big
scale. I had a friend and uh I told him about the great tsunami. He was he was
like, "Uh, Jack, I want to get into something uh whether it's real estate or
something that that can, you know, pay me passively over time. Uh cuz I want I
want to I don't I don't want to start a business, but I want to get into
something. So, should I get into real estate or what?" And I said, "Well,
there's this thing called the Great Tsunami. You can go buy a business." And
I told him about it, and he and we used like a laundromat as an example. And
he's like, "Well, I don't know how to run a laundromat. So if there's that
person like what if they're in that shoes like wanting to buy business like
well they have to be willing to learn. They have to be willing to learn to run
it. Yeah. They got to be willing to you know. So um passive income you know that
word almost assumes that you do something and there's no nothing, you
know, you have to do nothing at all to to to make money. And and that's sort of
a misnomer, right? you you know even if you buy real estate you had to do
something to get into the real estate and you have to deal with all the issues
around the real estate before that thing becomes passive truly passive. So even
with um you know a situation where a person's going to go buy vending
machines, laundromats or something like that, that person's going to have to
learn to to to run that business or there has to be
enough profit margin in it that they're going to have to be able to pay someone
to run that business. So, some people call you TJ. Yeah. Some people call you
the millionaire mentor. Yeah. And so, you've mentored thousands of
entrepreneurs over the years. And you're probably seeing some some rise, some
fall. What's like the number one mistake that you've seen, not the beginner
entrepreneur, but the maybe the entrepreneur in the million to 10
million range that is where they're going wrong? Where where's like the
average entrepreneur in the 1 to 10 million range going wrong? Yeah. So I so
I think it's sort of easy to get to the the the one two three you know million
dollar range. I think um a lot of entrepreneurs
don't don't partner well. They don't bring in other folks and bring in
leadership. I say you know a lot of times people will hire employees. Well
employees will do exactly what you tell them to do right. um they'll hire
managers, right? Because they recognize the fact that they need managers and
managers will manage what you tell them to manage, right? But they won't that's
not leadership, right? So in order to get real leadership sometimes you have
to partner and that means you have to give up equity and you have to do it in
a smart the right way. And I think um um entrepreneurs in that size even even
Yeah. Yeah. in that size even bigger. They don't partner properly. They don't
really attract leadership properly. They attract managers and they attract
employees, but they don't attract leadership. And leadership is what's
going to make you grow uh exponentially. Um unless you're Elon Musk, right?
you're Elon, even Elon Musk, he's the mouthpiece, but you better bet he has
some amazing leaders underneath him, you know. And for anyone out there that's in
that range, what are some of the the symptoms? It's like, hey, maybe I do
need to bring someone else in in order to get to get to that next level. Well,
ideas, you know, if people aren't bringing ideas to the table, people
aren't bringing you you're the person with all the ideas. you're the person
with all the solutions. You're not being stretched by other people on your team,
then you don't have the right leadership folks. You're the smartest person across
all the stuff that you do. That's a bar. Not bringing up that's facts. Yeah.
Yeah. So, yeah. So, if you're if you're that person, then you know those are
symptoms of someone that is going to be limited um from a leadership standpoint
and then therefore from a growth standpoint. I I think that's just so
important and I've never heard that before, but you know, you get everybody
at the table and everybody's just talking about maybe problems, but
nobody's delivering solutions or coming up with actual ideas to like address
what's going on to where maybe like let's say you was that person like
you're the only person who's like giving ideas to like address like and and it's
like time and time again and people are pointing to you or just talking about
the problems and it's like you know what I mean? Yeah. Then you're using your
money ineffectively. You're using your money in effectively and you're using
your equity ineffectively because the money and the uh equity should be
bringing those people that are going to bring ideas and that are motivated and
stand up, you know, and and figuring stuff out and coming to you and be like,
"Here's what we're going to do." And you guys were talking to you like, "I don't
get it." And they're like, "No, here's here's what it is." And you're like, "Oh
my god, that's cool." You know, and you guys can run off and do it. And you like
and that guy can just say, "Hey, here I got it all lined up, bro." Right. You
know, can you tell us the story of how you knew God was real?
Yeah. I mean, so, you know, I told you my
childhood was tough, tough, tough. So, um, uh, in that toughness,
um, I was always like, you know, just pleading, right? and sort of praying
like if you're real, show yourself in the Magic Johnson poster, you know, show
me, you know, just do something, you know, in the magic like Moses, you know,
like do something, right? And uh, you know, I'd cry myself to sleep and I'm
like, man, so this one night I'm like I'm like really having a bad time. Like
really a bad time because I'm like, you know, um, really somebody some family
adopted me. I shouldn't be here, you know? like how did I get in this
situation, you know, and uh I I don't even want to live, you know, I don't
want to be here. Um and uh at the time um I was 14 15
uh because I was working at Tony P Tony's Pizza. I was 14, 15 and at Tony's
Pizza, you know, I'm so I'm working there and I go to sleep crying, you
know, just just just balling, just wet, you know, just from crying. I get up
next day and, you know, go through my and I go to work and um and I'm sort of,
you know, kind of going through my day, you know, sad kid, you know, just doing
my thing. And uh where I worked was Tony's Pizza uh in and in Casey, South
Carolina. And um I'm working there and I would run the kitchen because I was like
a overachiever. So I'm like, you know, doing the kitchen thing. So I was taught
that if things got really busy to go up front and help. So just to kind of play,
you know, sort of uh uh cornerback and keep looking to see if you know the
lines got busy. And uh but you almost never had to go up to to run the cash
register. Uh but this one night it got really busy and I'm like, "Okay, I got
to go up and help this guy." So I go up to help this guy and he looks at me and
he says, "God told me to tell you that he loves
you." And in that
moment, I mean, all I could do is uh cry, you know. And so he just said, "God
told me to tell you he loves you." And uh and I forget the rest of what he told
me. But uh um but in that moment, I knew God was real. It like there's nobody
anywhere in the world could take that away from me that I knew God was real. I
didn't know what his form was, you know? I didn't know if everything in the Bible
was was was was, you know, um so I had to go figure that out, you know, on a
whole another journey try to figure that out. But but uh my relationship with God
and Jesus and be was was real from that point on. Yeah. Right.
And one of my favorite things about you is just your ability to think very big
and and that belief system that you have. Um, has faith helped you shape
that at all? Having that belief in God, has that helped you be more of a risk
taker? Has it helped you think a lot bigger? I'm just kind of curious to the
role that faith played in your success and, you know, thinking a lot bigger
than most people do. Yeah, it has because I think like um, you know, I've
gone through different times in my life where I would be really, really, really
devout, you know, like you know, my Bible's here and everybody would come,
come to lunch, do this. No, you know, I'm just going to read my Bible at lunch
or whatever. And I've been times when I've been the absolute opposite of that,
right? So, I mean, not the absolute opposite, but not as devout, right? So,
so I've um but I remember reading the Bible, the first time I ever read the
Bible on my own, I started in the New Testament. And so when I read the Bible
on my own, going through the New Testament, all I remember
was God telling, you know, learning the stories of faith. So it was like when,
you know, when when Jesus walked through and the woman
touched his robe, it was like and he looked back. He says, "Your faith has
healed you." Right? And you think about that situation, right? You think about
that situation where there's ruckus. There's people everywhere. It's a crowd.
It's Jesus, right? There's a crowd of people and everybody's reaching at him.
But when she reached at him and touched him, he stopped because he felt her
faith and said, "Your faith has healed you."
when the Peter Paul walking on water and he's walking and then he goes looks down
and he sinks because he stopped believing that he could do it. So, um
when you read the New Testament, there's all these stories of faith, faith,
faith, faith. So for me it lined up, you know, with um it it um lined up what
what I was living anecdotally, you know, what I was feeling anecdotally and then
it taught me that that was the thing. So if I believe it, I can accomplish it.
And that sounds so simple, right? If I believe it, I can accomplish it. But
it's really real. The hard part is believing it though. The hard part is is
is having it in your bones. And when you have it in your bones and you really
really believe it, I you know, I don't know anybody that's like, "Hey, I I
believed it in my bones and not been able to go out and accomplish the things
that they want." You know, I'm sure that exists and people's done that, but
that's not happened with me, you know, and it hasn't happened with people
around me when they believe in every JJ when she said to me, uh, I'm going to
change my life. She said it every day I saw her. I was like, talk to her. I
said, what are you doing? She said, I'm going to change my life. I'm going to
change my life. So, what are you talking about? She's like, I'm going to change
my life. I'm going to change my life. Cuz she was it, she was making a lot of
money. She was doing really well. You know, I was like, okay. you know, she
was uh um you know, all types of accolades. Everybody called her the
Michael Jordan of of of of execution. And she's like, "I'm gonna change my
life. I'm gonna change my life." And then one day she wrote a book and she
gave me the manuscript and said, "Read it." I was like,
"Okay, you know, how many weight loss books are there? You know, how many
relationship books are there? And you're giving me a how's this book going to
like break through?" But she believed it and she believed in me. She said,
"You're the best businessman I know." And that Whoa, wait a minute. She's
telling me that. I got to believe it. And that that uplifted me. I got
stronger. So, I started studying and living up to this expectation. Right?
That book became the number one New York Times bestseller. Not the number one on
Amazon. Not the number one, you know, the number one book. And when you say
the number one book, there was a Oprah book, there was a Hillary Clinton book,
there was all these books that were we, you know, competing with, but her book
became the number one. Now, I didn't believe it was going to happen from day
one, but she believed it. And that belief spilled over into her action,
which was work. It spilled over into her conversation with me, which was to
influence me and to sell me, to help her, and to invest in this thing and and
and the rest is history on that. And now you're talking about with that one
brand, we've made hundreds of millions of
dollars, right? And all she said every day was, "I'm going to change my life.
I'm going to change my life." So when you ask me how important is faith,
that's how important faith is. You know, I love it. We got two last ones for you.
Yeah. Give us one more guiding principle for the younger generation. 20-year-old
kid watching this right now. He's lost in life. What's your best advice to him
right now? Give him one more guiding principle to take with him beyond this
podcast. Yeah, I I would I mean it's so the problem is I can say something. It's
really simple, right? What can I take away? What should I Bro,
focus. Get a very specific skill set, right?
and get be able to help someone with that
skill set and go out and start making money doing that whether it's your job,
whether you're freelancing, whatever. And don't worry about being a master at
it from the very beginning. Just get good enough where you can help someone
and people will pay you for that or people will employ you for that and then
get better and better and better and become a master at it, right? and
continue to help people with that skill set and you can't lose, right? So, so
that's not sexy, right? But it's real, you know, get a skill set that's viable
that that you can monetize, right? Go out and start helping people with it as
quickly as you can, right? Charge for it, get a job in it, and um and and keep
pulling that string, and you're going to get there. through uh our interviews on
the school of hard knocks. Uh we like to think that we're almost sharing the
legacy of thousands of entrepreneurs that have built amazing companies and
sharing that legacy with the world. So what would you say is your legacy and
how do you want to be remembered? It's it's a good question because I'm I'm
still uh building that. I think uh you know I I share with you guys off camera
that I just had this crazy thing happen to me and um in this crazy situation um
it was just two weeks ago. I literally was scared because I didn't
know what was about to happen. If I show you a picture of, you know, what was
going on in the lung and all that stuff, it's like absolutely crazy. Um,
so the thing that I want to have mattered enough, right? So
that's the question that I, you know, kept asking myself. Did I matter enough?
Right? Of course you matter because you matter to your your friends and your
kids, but did I matter enough um based on what my potential is, what my gifts
are, did I make enough of an impact? Right? And so um and um and I know that
I'm going to spend the rest of my life making sure I answer that question. Did
I matter enough? So, um, so the the answer to that question is going to be
he mattered. You know, he made an impact. So, that's it. I love it. I love
it. TJ, thank you so much. This was incredible. For all the people tuned in
right now, where can everybody find you at? TJ Millionaire Mentor on Instagram.
Um, YouTube, though I don't do much YouTube content right now, but uh TJ
Millionaire Mentor on Instagram is a um, you know, come meet me over there. say
hello. I'd love it. Everybody, go tap in with TJ right now if you're not tuned in
to the brands. He's got some great content he's putting out. And guys, be
sure to like and subscribe for amazing content because every single week, guys,
we're going all over the world to find and interview the most successful
business owners for you guys to learn directly from them. And if you want to
take it a step further and get mentored from the multi-millionaires and the
billionaires that we interview every week, we got one of the biggest
entrepreneur communities in the entire world, the School of Mentors, where we
host live calls, live Zoom calls with the millionaires and billionaires that
we interview on this channel, the School of Mentors, one of the biggest school
communities, one of the biggest communities for entrepreneurs in the
world. The links down in the description along with the links to go follow TJ on
all platforms. With that being said, we'll see you guys in the next episode.