the pest control mogul. This man right
here has built and sold five companies for over a billion dollars. Is that
correct? >> Uh I have an NDA, but yeah, I think
that's a safe assumption. >> That's a safe assumption right there. A
lot of people are very focused on, you know, hey, I want to own a restaurant
cuz it's sexy. They have the highest failure rate [music] and the margins
aren't that good. Portal potty businesses, they've got great margins
and they're scalable. >> I don't want to just be a pest control
company anymore. So, I started studying companies like Google and Meta. I
started taking ideas. [music] I'm like, you know what? Nobody else in pest
control even thought about this. young, hungry entrepreneurs who can learn a
thing or two to level up their sales game. I got to hear from the master
himself. >> Totally. So is key.
>> When you're talking to people, your face is [music] telling them, "Please don't
hurt me." Confident people, I let the person know like, "I'm not afraid of you
and [music] there's no reason for you to be afraid of me. Let's just have a
conversation." And you don't want to do it, it's cool. Just go to the next
person. >> Wow.
>> So, uh, second thing, a system I developed called the rack [music]
system. So, resolve ace. >> I hadn't heard that last part.
>> I haven't. Yeah, I've not have not heard that. That's [music] great.
>> Yeah. So, if you really really want it and you will put the time in, I promise
you that's it's a whole different [music] game from then on. What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast. I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh
and we are sitting down with an incredible guest for you all today out
here in Los Angeles, Mr. David Royce, otherwise known as the Pest Control
Mogul. This man right here has built and sold five companies for over a billion
dollars. Is that correct? Uh, I have an NDA, but yeah, I think that's a safe
assumption. >> That's a safe assumption [laughter]
right there. First of all, congratulations on your success. You had
an incredible career in a niche that I think is it's fascinating to learn about
because we've never even had somebody on this show that's been in the pest
control business, >> where I want to get things started.
David, >> what was the biggest thing you had to
sacrifice to build a billion-dollar company? Gosh, I think it's just time
and money, right? Like you you hold off. Like when I got into it, I threw all of
my savings into it and it really wasn't profitable for about four years until I
was able to say, "Okay, I'm actually making, you know, say a six figure
income at this point where I had paid back what I had initially put into it."
So it just it, you know, and time, right, like 16 hour days for almost a
decade. But that was a personal choice. like I really wanted to go go because I
had this strategy of before I have kids, I want to put all my time and I want to,
you know, create a lifestyle for myself. And then during those four years, like
what were you telling yourself? Because like you said, it took four years for it
to become profitable. You know, I always think about like everybody sees year 20,
but they don't want to go through year one. So, what were those first couple
years like? And like what were you really telling yourself? The nice thing
is I had experience and it's one of the things I tell everybody to go do is go
get experience in whatever you think you might want to do and see if you like it,
if you're any good at it. And I was really really good at it. I [laughter]
had no idea. This is like I was a broke college student uh working a minimum
wage job and I had a friend pitch me and say, "Hey, I made 25 grand last summer
uh doing this sales thing for pest control." And I was like, "Great.
Whatever it is, I'm in because I don't want to work anymore during school. It's
too hard to get the grades." And so I I went and did that. I fell into it. I was
really good at it. I I was horrible at first. I didn't sell anything for five
days. Everybody else around me is selling one to four accounts. And little
by little, you know, I was able to, you know, figure it out. But then I was top
rookie by the end of the year. Um, I was writing sales training manuals and
overseeing the entire program and hiring, you know, hundred different guys
to come out and work for me in the summertime. Uh, and then I took all
those savings and threw it into it. But, uh, I knew what I was doing by the time
I went to go start my own company. And so I had taken finance in college. And
so I understood financial models. I still almost bankrupt the company in
year one, but I at least had that idea and saying,"Look, this will pay off in
time. I've got to stay focused. This is what it's going to take to initially put
in the capital." But I knew that the value of the business, although I wasn't
pulling out money, I knew that the value of the overall business was worth over a
million dollars in year one. And so if I could continue to, you know, make it
profitable by adding more customers, uh, you know, and paying off the sales
commissions, by year four, you know, I ended up selling that first company for
Forbes had 13 million bucks, you know, and yeah, it was a whole different game
from then on. >> So you started in doortodoor sales
earlier in your career, right? And quickly rose up the ranks at that
initial company that you worked at. What I know we have so many people that watch
this show who need >> He's not the only door to door salesman
at this table that we got. We got We got Jay Smith over here.
>> That's right. >> Hey, that's where he started off the
right here. >> 28 today.
>> 28 today for the birthday man right here.
>> Yes. Congrats. >> Thank you.
>> Um, but I know we have a ton of people who watch the show who need to get
better at sales. And for you, what were some of those initial sales tactics or
just lessons that separated you from the pack that people watching could really
take into their companies or if I'm sure there's a bunch of young hungry
entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs that are watching the show who can learn a thing
or two to level up their sales game. So, I got to hear it from the master
himself. >> Totally. So, when I had sold zero for
five days straight, I went to a bookstore that weekend. You know, I'm
just buming going, "Okay, what? I gotta figure this out. Uh, and I bought half a
dozen sales books and I read 90 minutes every day. And there are so many things
you can learn. What's cool about commission sales, although you make zero
unless you sell something, you have that ability to improve and to make more
money. It's not like, you know, an hourly job where you just it's almost
like you you're trained to work as little as possible and still get paid.
So, it's complete opposite. Uh the main thing I realized from day one or from
when I finally started setting up on sales was that I just wasn't closing
correctly. Like I'd go through my couple minute presentation and then go, "So,
what do you think?" [laughter] And like if you do that, like the
customer usually mirrors you back, they're like, "I don't know." So closing
was key. Uh I I started out with like option closes. I think when you met me
on the street, yeah, >> we talked about that. But it's just
like, "Hey, we're going to be here today and tomorrow. What day would work best
for you?" you know, and both both are moving the customer in the direction of
the sale as opposed to so what do you think and they're like uh the second
thing was a system I developed called the rack system. So resolve ace close.
Uh first is if somebody has an objection, you got to make sure you have
a rebuttal ready to go. Um but not just one rebuttal. That's this is where a lot
of people make mistakes. You got to think you got to have at least two or
three ready to go because they may it may not be enough information for them
to go, yeah, okay, that's good. They might counter they might object your
rebuttal to their objection. >> Yeah. They might still say, "No, I'm
not, but what about this or this?" But it's really the same objection. So, what
I would do is I would resolve the rebuttal or at least give my uh
rebuttal. The second thing was I would have an ace. I had usually had four
aces. Like I got a deck of a cards. I'd lay down something new that they hadn't
heard yet to get their mind off, you know, of the of the objection that they
had. And then I would close in a different way. Okay. So, I'd usually
have four different closes and I would try one a different one, you know, each
time as I went through. So, if they still said, I still don't, and they come
back to that uh same uh objection, then I'd just, you know, have a different
rebuttal, have a different, you know, ace I could lay down and then a
different close. >> Do you remember what those closes were?
Obviously, the option close was one that you've highlighted in our previous
interview. Do you know what some of those other ones were?
>> You know, another one might be, you know, when I come out here tomorrow, I'm
taking care of your neighbor John and we're going to get all these spiderw
webs and was nest off of the is getting >> when you're here to Would you like me to
go ahead and take care of that for you as well?
>> No, I mean that's my favorite part about this is when I'm doing the neighbor, you
know, he's doing he's doing the hand motions and everything is is
>> that's muscle memory right there. [laughter] >> What is and that's actually my third thing I was going to bring up is body
language is key. >> You know, for a lot of the sales reps, I
I wrote a script and it's about two minutes and I would tell them like the
script, it's not the script that is messing you up. It's that when you're
talking to people, your your face is telling them, "Please don't hurt me."
You're like, "Hey, how are you doing?" You know, they got deer in the head.
Yeah. Like it's just timidity, right? Because you show up at a door and
they're all straight cold calls and a lot of the times the person does not
want you at the door or they're in the middle of dinner or they're doing
something and they're trying to get you off the doorstep and they don't even
know what you're selling, >> right? Yeah.
>> And so you're trying to find a way to just calm the situation, you know, build
some trust very very quickly. And then >> explain what what you're describing
right here is what we call delivery. Whether you're creating content, whether
you're selling, right? Like successful people, people that want to buy, they
want to buy from somebody that is clearly confident, they know what
they're talking about. Do you have any tips though on how somebody can enhance
their delivery skills to where, you know, the body language is optimized for
them to, you know, get to the sale and get to yes faster,
>> come off more confident, those sort of things.
>> Yeah. So confidence is body language and it's also parverbal communication. to
the way you say things, right? It's uh a lot of people think of stereotypical
salespeople. They speak really fast, you know, they speak really loud because
they're trying to control the situation. And confident people, they don't have to
do that. Like they're slow. They're they speak like a friend to the other person.
You know, they smile and they head nod as they talk and they let the person
know like, I'm not afraid of you and there's no reason for you to be afraid
of me. Let's just have a conversation. And if you don't want to do it, it's
cool. Just, you know, go to the next person. So, uh, smiles and head nods are
my two favorite things. >> Oh, [laughter] yeah.
>> You know, obviously a smile makes you very confident, but there's also a lot
of psychology behind it, right? So, when you smile, you actually release dopamine
and you feel good. Well, when you watch somebody else smile, you feel dopamine
as well. And customers are trained to mirror you. That's just what humans do.
So, if you smile, I'll smile back. And we start having this back and forth
thing where we both feel good. And as I explain the product, you actually feel
good. And then you associate, I feel comfortable with this person. I like the
product, but really there's this whole thing going on behind the scenes in
terms of how we feel about it. The same thing with the head nod. Head nods are
small little yeses all along the way. So if I say something, hey, my name's Dave,
and I'll nod my head. >> Yeah.
>> You you nodded your head right back to me, right? And so now we're we're I
already can tell that you're you're okay with me uh to a certain degree. And I
might look out and say, you know, we're taking care of this neighbor and this
neighbor and um it's mainly been the spiders and the ants. I'll nod my head
along with it. Every single head nod gets you closer to a yes
>> by the end of your presentation. Uh we just feel like we're in agree
agreement. So >> one of the things we were talking about
before the podcast is my background is also in door-to-d dooror sales. Yep. And
I said that a lot of companies do a terrible job of recruiting new sales
reps, canvasers for doortodoor sales. >> And my theory is is because the
opportunity isn't big enough. But you've created sales organizations built around
pest control that >> make millions upon millions of dollars.
Yep. >> What is different about your
organization and why people want to sell for a company like yours versus the
rest? And be basically before we started this, we even said uh you know the pest
control mogul, but you even said it it really a lot of it comes down to the
sales team. >> It started all with the sales program.
That was our unique niche. We could grow seven to 10 times as fast as the
traditional pest control company that didn't have a door-to-d dooror sales
model. Um that maybe was just doing digital or just you know getting
referrals or whatever else. I think the number one thing is training. If you
don't train your people, you can't expect them to do well. And this is a
major fault for most most corporations in our country is they have this wet rag
mentality. They say, "Let's hire a bunch of sales potential salespeople. We'll
throw them against the wall. We'll see who sticks." And you know, if they can't
if they don't stick, then they just leave and we've got who we've got. The
problem with that is that you get horrible, horrible employee reviews as a
result. Two, your sales people don't sell as well. So, how do you expect to
be like number one if if they aren't the number one sales trained team? Um, and
then three would be hiring. When you're hiring, you really got to be able to
kind of sift through everybody and ask them like, "Show me something you've
done that was really hard in the past." Um, and either they have experience in
sales or they have experience in something like leadership that shows
that they at least, you know, have the basic, they're not just total like you
can mold them into a great salesperson. >> They got the fire in the belly.
>> Yeah. They they got to be hungry. That's for sure. Do you think if a company is
hiring for door-to-d dooror closers, should it be primarily commission only
or do are you a fan of uh base plus commission?
>> Commission only. >> Why?
>> Because if [laughter] >> you eat what you kill,
>> you eat what you kill, right? Like you have to do it. Um otherwise it's it's
kind of like well you just go through the motions. Um but those people who
make the very most commission only >> like and they want it. They're like no I
don't want this. I'll make less if you pay me a salary plus a commission or a
base post commission. >> So, David, you obviously building great
sales programs and sales organizations was a big key to your success as an
entrepreneur. >> Uh, but I want to get to more on the the
operations side of things. Uh, because you've had multiple exits in the pest
control space. And so what else for you outside of just like building that great
sales team was so key for you to to be able to run this play multiple times and
do it bigger and better every time? I think even a better question would be is
like what's something at each stage uh for each of the companies that you
founded and exited that you took away from that experience that led to the
success of you getting to that next level?
>> Yeah. So the first thing was the the model that I structured and the deals.
So, the uh my and it all goes back to my my first year in business. I almost
bankrupt it. So, I thought we were going to maybe put on 4,000 or 5,000
customers. We ended up putting on 7,500 customers. And you you have to have a
certain amount of cash built up ready to go uh to pay pay our sales reps because
what you're doing is you're paying them a percentage of the whole year, but
you're paying it upfront. Um or you're paying it in portions, but you're paying
out more upfront than you're actually taking in. So, uh kind of like the the
sales guy or the pest control guy said in your video, right? you got to bring
in more money than you actually spend. Um, so yeah, I almost over spent. So I
had to go to a few of my salespeople and say, "Hey, can I can I pay you later? I
I'll give you 10% interest, but give me a couple more months to pay." We just
did way better. And because they had such a great experience and I had
trained with every single salesperson on my own as well. They were they were
happy to do it, and they were all coming back the next summer.
>> So I realized really quick that, hey, I might have a problem. You know, they say
revenues are vanity, profits are sanity, but cash flow is reality. And so I'm
glad I learned that lesson early on. >> I hadn't heard [clears throat] that last
part. Cash reality had not heard that facts. That's great.
>> Yeah. Or cash is king, right? >> I I wanted to ask you because I wish
that we talked a little bit more about this in our last interview, but
recurring revenue was very important in the pest control business. Can you talk
about how essential that was to having a longer lifetime value for your customers
and generating that revenue? Talk about that.
>> Yeah. So we literally like when we said it, think of it like a gardening
service, right? If you have a gardener come out and they treat your yard, uh,
get rid of your weeds for you, do you just go, "Okay, great. I'll call you
back in the future whenever I need you." I mean, you don't. You have them come
out probably once a week, right, to, you know, maintain the yard because the
weeds are going to come back and pests are the exact same way. You can treat,
but they're probably going to come back in a month, two, or three months. And
you can set people up on different programs to make sure it's preventive.
What's ironic is, you know, the customers who had the least problems
with us, they were our best customers. They stayed with us the longest because
they didn't want bugs, you know, and that was the idea. It's like it's kind
of like an insurance policy, you know, and if you see something, hey, call us.
We'll come out for free in between services if you have our recurring SE
service. And so that's key for money, right? Like think of it like a SAS
business for software, right? Like if you're paying a monthly subscription or
quarterly or whatever it might be, >> it's the most beautiful business. Oh, it
makes it so great. And then you get paid a lot more when you sell a business,
right? Because you're getting paid a multiple on that stream of uh a stream
of cash flow. >> So, I would imagine that you only want
to be in businesses that have recurring revenue.
>> I I mean, I I prefer that if I was just trying to find a business that I I could
do and make a lot of money, that's what I would do. I think today I'll probably
be more uh focused on passion and philanthropy and other things just since
I've kind of made my money. >> Yeah.
>> But yeah, I'd definitely look for something recurring.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I wanted to talk a little bit more about cuz, you know, Jack had
brought up, you know, how one of your superpowers was bringing in great sales
reps. When we go back to the door to door days, David, you know, whether it's
you advising people or you going through it, one of the most common things people
are going to face is a ton of rejection. And I think that it's it's easy enough
to see you now, right, and the success that you've had, the companies that
you've sold, but I'm sure that you face so much rejection. You have to advise
people going through that. So, I remember when we interviewed Kurt
Lennington, who's a Dallas entrepreneur, he sold a roofing company for hundreds
of millions of dollars. And his saying about rejection is that anytime you're
rejected, they're not rejecting you. They're rejecting your offer. Do you
have any mantras or things that you live by when it comes to rejection to be able
to persist through the hundreds of rejections a day that I'm sure that you
were getting at some points? >> Yeah. So, our average is we knock about
150 doors in a day. And maybe a uh a third of those homeowners even open the
door. Uh you know, for whatever reason, they're just not home or they see you
and they're like, "Nope, not this time." >> But but but but I'm sure don't take it
personally. >> But I'm sure though out of that
two-thirds though, you got some people like Josh threat to get the gun and pull
it out on you. You know, >> you get some wild stuff out there. It's
It's not as common as you think. Like most people are pretty polite. But every
once in a while, you get something. >> But when it does happen though, I'm sure
that you're questioning, man, what what am I doing, man? like like like did that
ever cross your mind or? >> Yeah, when when you first start out, you
know, and you're new to it, but there's a lot of things that we did. So, like we
used to actually keep track of every door we knocked. In fact, it was kind of
like think of a pen on every single home on Google Maps and we would literally
mark the home. We'd write what the objection was, you know, we keep track
of all this data. >> So smart.
>> Yeah. And the nice thing is it would count how many homes you had. And we
just said, "Look, this is a numbers game. If you knock 150 in a day,
statistically on average, you're going to close about two and a half customers.
Like that's how what it'll pan out to. And then other two and a half, two
customers are going to get serviced, you know, uh maybe the following day. And
just got to, you know, keep keep in it. Keep keep your head in it. So, if you
don't sell anything and you've gone for 74 doors, more than likely on the 75th
door, you're going to get it. And sometimes it doesn't happen or sometimes
you get way more sales, you know, in a day than you should on the next day. And
it all just kind of averages out. So, you have to go, hey, this is a numbers
game. Don't worry about it. The best thing about what we did is you can go to
the next door. If somebody doesn't want it, just like, cool, go to the next one.
I start all over, all fresh and new. >> The outcome does the outcome of that
door doesn't necessarily impact this one.
>> Yeah. It's not like you just have like one girl you're dating or something.
You're like, I all my eggs are in this one basket. It's like just go to the
next door. And to be very fair, it's also like pest control is something that
people need. You know what I mean? Like like in that case, I feel like it's, you
know, like a relatively thing. It's not like you're selling to people.
>> Yeah, it's an essential service, right? So, like when we had the pandemic, like
we could still go out. Um, yeah, we had to stand 10 feet away from the doors
when we [laughter] were talking to people. Um, but surprisingly, people
actually really liked having someone stop by their door because they hadn't
talked to people for sometimes days or weeks, you know, in person.
>> Um, so yeah, it's an essential service. The good the good news is that uh, you
know, the bugs don't read the Wall Street Journal, right? So, they don't
know when there's a recession. So, it's very recession resilient.
>> That's great. Yeah. One of the things that I just thought about is the fact
that pest control is p probably primarily a seasonal business.
>> So how do you manage that cash flow in maybe the winter when you're maybe not
fully oper operational? Do you have a different service or product that you
sell to those customers or what does that look like?
>> We actually do. So you know it depends on what place you're in, right? Like
some places like Florida, it's like year round crazy buggy. Um but you know some
places have you know winters and we might shift from insects more to rodent
control because that's when it's really bad or spiders. uh you you just have
more bugs at certain times of the year. Um but you know the spring, the summer
and the fall are usually pretty tough just in general for everywhere across
the United States. Um but yeah, you know, the winter time we still do stuff.
We'll still treat inside walls. We'll do different things in the winter time.
>> You had mentioned that, you know, the cash flow was a big thing for you that
you learned from that first business about like kind of structuring the deal
with your reps to make sure, hey, you're not going to go bankrupt. trying to make
sure that they get paid and setting up a good structure that way. Looking at more
of the companies that you've had recently, like the bigger ones, what was
different about those? Obviously, you talked about the cash flow thing, but
what do you think was the differentiator between those and maybe some of the, you
know, earlier companies that weren't as big?
>> I'll go back to your question before, too. So what I realized was I needed
money in order to grow, you know, and I could grow, you know, one location a
year, maybe, you know, if I did what I did with the money that I had or I could
sell it. And I had seen my mentor originally sell his business. And when
you're a small business, the big guys like Terminex, twothirds of their growth
are M&A. They have they have to grow because they have
>> twothirds. Yeah. Uh every quarter, right? They've got to hit certain
numbers as a public company in order to look good. And so, uh, I realized that
when you're small, you don't have a big brand. And so, the big companies, they
don't want the brand. They don't want, um, you know, the majority of the
business. They really just want the the book of business, like the customer base
and the technicians to go with it. And so, what I did is I structured something
very similar to what my mentor had originally done. I just said, "Hey, I'll
sell you the customer base and the technicians, but that's it. I'm going to
keep the sales force. I'm going to keep my executive team. I'm going to keep my
key operator in each location. uh and then we'll you know go we'll go to other
places and expand but we'll use that money to continue to grow the next one
and then maybe we'll sell to you maybe we won't we'll just see how it goes and
so I did that three times with three different businesses each time we did it
we had more money u so the second time we grew we're sorted with eco first we
we expanded into four different states and then eventually nine and we're just
trying to figure out how do you scale the original model the first company was
very much like working in a lab and trying to figure out what worked what
didn't I hadn't been an operator before. Was trying to figure that out. Opened up
a second location. Was trying to figure out how do you manage from afar if
you're not there all the time. Writing down training manuals, putting all your
best practices in there. And then uh sold the second one. On the third one,
we we were like, "Okay, I want to be different. I don't want to just be a
pest control uh pest control company anymore." So, I started studying
companies like Google and Meta and Zapos. And we I toured their
headquarters. I started taking ideas. I'm like, "You know what? we can have a
NCAA basketball court. What about a golf simulator? You know, what about, you
know, we could have like events with DJs or we could bring in bands or do things.
So, I just started getting all these ideas kind of taking a page out of, you
know, Silicon Valley and had like a killer headquarters, right? We went and
got a NBA suite, you know, we uh we started having really cool annual
retreats to initially started out in places like Hawaii, but then eventually
was like Thailand and Africa and Egypt and all this. And the idea was to brain
share, you know, with all the top 5% of salespeople or the, you know, the all
the branch managers, location managers together. And so each time we had more
and more money to be able to do things bigger, better. And that kind of
snowballed. It helped the companies get bigger and bigger.
>> Did you feel that there was like a massive return on doing those kind of
like Silicon Valleyesque perks and trips and things for the team? Uh I mean, cuz
we're starting to get into that. We're doing like our first company offsite in
a few few weeks for one of our departments and uh it's just cool to
kind of see what kind of goes into it and planning things like that. Uh and so
I'm curious to see like what kind of return did you see on on doing those
bigger things at the bigger company and bigger level for people.
>> So when everybody else is not doing it and you're the only group doing it, it's
pretty easy to stand out. >> Yeah.
>> Right. And nobody else in pest control even thought about this. Like they they
thought it was so weird that we were doing this like how do you guys have
money to do it? And it's like, well, we're growing really fast and we sold a
company, so we have all this money that all these other companies don't have.
And so, uh, I I think it just created a super unique culture for me. I realized,
especially by the third business, hey, we're we're growing and we're growing
thousands of people now. We have got to maintain uh the caliber of recruits that
we need. So, we need to be the best. We need to treat these people like gold.
And then also for me, I was feeling um like I I couldn't be there in every
spot. Everybody couldn't know me. And so the culture had to be bigger than just
what would Dave do. It was like what would the company do, right? The company
was bigger than just me. Uh and it was fun. You know, I it's something you can
be proud of, right? You're never going to regret giving your best at something
or just creating really cool, memorable experiences for people. Some of my
favorite memories are all these wild things we did, you know, whether we're
jumping off cliffs cliffs in Hawaii or skydiving or swimming with sharks or
driving Ferraris on a racetrack together or dune buggies. Like it just goes on
and on and on. >> I I would imagine one of the things as
you were expanding the company going into different states, you probably
faced a bit of going into markets or areas where there were other pest
control companies that had already been there. How did you kind of monitor or
overcome that aspect? because I'm sure that that was very common especially
when you know there's what like you were the second or third largest in the in in
the country. >> Yeah. Third largest residential.
>> It's incredible. But like when you're maybe some of those the bigger companies
at the time that were in those states that you weren't in already, how did you
kind of mitigate the challenge of going into markets where your competitors
already were? And if so, would you try and flank and would you try and compete
with them? What would you do? >> So there's a few key things. So one, if
somebody in sales had come to us, you know, there there weren't very many
companies that even did doortodoor back then. In fact, even today, there might
only be 60 or 70 that even do it out of 20,000 companies. And so, if you had
come over from another company as a sales rep, you sold 70% more with us
than you did with your previous company uh that first year with us. And so, our
sales training was hands down the best. It didn't really matter where you went,
you were going to do on average better statistically. The second thing was when
I sold, I knocked 60,000 doors myself for over four summers in college. And uh
I basically got a PhD in what customers didn't like about our industry, right?
So I knew and I I thought, okay, well, you know, they're not really sweeping
the eaves or taking the spiderw webs down off the eaves. And it's a visual
thing. It's so great for a salesperson standing on a doorstep. If you can see
it and you can point to it, the c, you know, potential customer looks up and
goes, "Oh, yeah, I do have that." even if they have another service. Uh the
yard, a lot of companies have just like a a structural license around the ba,
you know, they'll treat the inside of the home or around the base of the home.
The reality is most people don't want a pest control person inside their home,
you know, treating like that's if you have a major infestation on the inside.
And what you can do is treat around the outside of the home primarily to, you
know, it's preventive, right, to keep bugs out. But then people still had
problems in the yard. You might have fire ants out in the yard. You guys know
about those. you might have um you know was nest or spiders along the fence line
or whatever else. So we said well this is crazy the other companies they don't
have the license to treat the yard they're and so these customers they're
going to Home Depot and still getting product to treat like that's one of the
benefits of pest control is to not have to store chemicals inside your home if
you've got young kids or pets and you don't want to get them to get into it or
you just don't want to have to go treat yourself out in the sun like in the
middle of the summer like who wants to do that? So our idea was like, well,
let's get the extra licenses. Let's let's take care of everything. And so we
kept adding more and more things. And it was additional pests, you know, like
they weren't treating for snails or slugs, you know, in California or uh
anyways, list goes on and on. We could bore you forever with all the different
pest names. >> Oh yeah, definitely.
>> What else can you do, [clears throat] right? Because we were a sales
organization and we wanted to sell more. >> And so if we did more, then we had more
things to sell. >> Yeah. So yeah, we just kept finding new
new ways to >> to go around them.
>> In the beginning of your company, you said that the hardest thing for you to
manage and to really just get a hold of was just cash flow to be able to pay
people and to continue to grow the company.
>> Yeah. >> But once you get past that stage as
you're growing, what was the hardest part about building the business that
you're in? >> And was there ever a moment that was
like, hey, I'm I got my back against the wall and I just don't know what I'm
going to do here. So best practices, getting them all into
training manuals and then the train the actual training programs are the hardest
thing. I was unique because I had such a bad experience my first five days that I
saw the power in um you know training and the need for it. And although people
had been knocking door to door in pest control for maybe a decade, there were
only like really three companies that were doing it and there maybe only 500
sales reps total in the entire industry. And today, I don't know if there's
10,000 or how however many there might be. Um, but I realized there was a hole
in the training. And so, I got to write a training manual for the company. I got
to um, you know, go out and recruit people and train them. And I developed
the program. I started videotaping or, uh, you know, recording video recording,
uh, sales reps. Back then, we actually had camcorders to record people. Uh, and
we would watch their body language and teach them how to sell better. Uh then
from that I transitioned into operations. You know it's like how do we
have great training on the operations? The problem is that most business owners
like the small mom and pops they never get to owning two locations because they
don't know how to uh get all their recipe down in a in training manuals and
it's it's critical. Um I worked at a pizza parlor when I was 14. It's a mom
and pop place. Uh good people but zero systems. And then I worked at McDonald's
when I was 15 when I got fired from [laughter] my pizza parlor, right? So
I'm down on my luck. I go, "You know what? There's one place I know that'll
hire anybody. I'm going to go to McDonald's." Um, and I worked there for
two years, believe it or not. And >> you got good You got good cooking fries,
>> man. I fries like every everything, right? Cashier.
I I I realized I did not know at the time how much I would learn from
McDonald's because they had a best practice for everything. And they had
training videos and they had check off lists for everything each day and they
always had you busy. They were very very efficient. And so surprisingly I learned
so much from working there. Like they probably made me hundreds of billions of
dollars. [laughter] I probably owe them a lot, right? To especially to a job
that I thought was embarrassing uh when I was in high school, but I was just,
you know, trying to make some extra money at that time.
>> It's so interesting that every single business has a different constraint.
Like one of our businesses is an agency and we've realized that the constraint
of that business is a labor constraint. It's like how could you turn someone who
isn't as familiar from with content or video, whatever it may be, and turn them
into an absolute expert. And it's creating that Chick-fil-A manual, that
McDonald's manual of training to turn someone from not knowing very much to
turning them into an absolute expert. And so I just think there's so much,
it's so interesting to hear that it's not only just, you know, a content
business, there's also a pest control. There's so many different businesses
around the world that have these different constraints or whatever.
>> Yeah. The and then training, right? Like uh the Nathan from Founder Magazine was
interviewing me and he said, "So, it sounds like you were just really good at
creating um you know, training manuals, you know, and best practices and systems
and process and all that kind of thing." And I was like, "No, I don't think I
was. I just that's what how I initially kind of got into the industry." And I
saw the difference it made in people's lives and I'm like, "This is key,
right?" like if I had had this, oh, my experience would have been so much
better and how much more money would I have made and how much more money would
the company have made if they had really good training programs. So, yeah, most
mom and pops, they're so focused on the day-to-day that they don't they don't
think about this. By the end of the day, they're just tired. And I tell people
that, you know, your time is it's critical. You have divide everything
into A's, B's, and C's. A's are things that are the most important, but they're
not urgent. Uh B's are somewhat important, somewhat urgent. And then,
you know, C's are uh they're urgent, but they're not important. So C might be
paying your bills, right? You like have to pay your bills, right? They're
urgent. You don't want to be late. But you should set those up on autopay. You
don't have to pay them yourself. Or you can have somebody else pay them for you.
>> Delegate. >> Yeah, delegate. Like if you don't have
to do it yourself, like if I don't have to do it, I I don't do it. Like
absolutely not. And you you learn this in in time. Um B's might be hiring
people, right? like you have to hire great people. Um, but you you can, you
know, train other people to do that and you can create, you know, a training
manual, you know, a check off list for what is it that you're looking for. The
A's are things like how do you increase revenue, you know, how do you add
another product or service line? How do you become more efficient? You know, how
do you increase profitability? How do you cut costs? It's all those key things
to the business. >> Signal.
>> Yes, that's exactly what it is. It's >> signal signal. Yeah.
>> Yeah. We interviewed uh Kevin Olirri and Robert from Shark Tank and uh Kevin Olri
of course used to work for Steve Jobs and he always said that the uh you know
there's the signal to noise ratio signal or what are the three things the most
important things that can that are the most important in the business today and
a lot of people get those wrong they don't realize like hey that's that is
strictly what's going to push the business forward especially from a
monetary standpoint everything else is the noise uh and uh I love how you broke
that down for anybody who's like wants to look deeper into that it's actually
called like I think it's called the Eisenhower matrix uh and you can find it
in Steven Cvy's book seven habits of highly effective people. Um I want to
stay on the signal because what's interesting to me is like
>> in your career journey you stayed pest control and ran the play over and over
again. You talked a little bit about it earlier how you learned from a mentor.
He had an exit. He had more money so now he can make it even bigger pest control
play. Uh, and so was there ever a time where you kind of wanted to like maybe
do something else or kind of get off the path? Because one of the biggest things
that we've learned is like when we've tried to like do something that's not
super vertically integrated with our business, we start we start we don't do
it as well. Yep. >> Uh, and uh, it's almost kind of like you
lose the signal in a way. It's a little bit of a different signal than the
day-to-day. It's more of a macro signal. Uh, and so I'd love to hear from you.
Like, was there ever a time where you kind of got a little shiny object
syndrome where you're like, "Hey, maybe I go do this." Uh, it's just so
impressive to me that you stayed pest control through all these different
companies. You know, it was [clears throat] 20 years and I finally
got to a point where I'm like, "Okay, I don't think I'm going to learn anything
new. I made a lot of money and I'm probably at that point like the business
has to be bigger than you as an individual." And so, and it needs to be
in the hands of somebody who's truly passionate about it and excited to
continue pushing it along. And so, for us, like I need we needed to find a good
steward, you know, private equity group that could take that on and keep moving
it along. As far as other things, so we I started a solar business. I
don't talk about it that much, but we got our butts handed to us a few
different times, and there's things that you can do really well. So, we were
really great at the sales, the door sales, right? And so we went out and we
said, "Okay, the first year we're going to just take 15, 20 guys and we'll go
sell, but the operations will be done by somebody else." Well, we did it. We
killed it. We did amazing. We're like, "Awesome. This is like another business
we can do." So, we go, we say, "Okay, let's put 150, 200 salespeople on it."
uh we sell great but then throughout the year the operations people we had
different operations companies doing it and they uh they started going out of
business or they they weren't keeping up with everything and it started really
affecting how we did things. Uh it cost us a lot of money. It was a really
expensive mistake. >> Yeah.
>> Wow. >> And then uh the next year we said okay
well we got to do our own operations because these other ones are going out
of business. Well, we try to do operations on our own and the first time
you do anything, you're going to you're going to make a lot of mistakes.
[laughter] Uh we had somebody that we'd hired as a
COO. Um he bailed initially. We brought somebody else in that was less
qualified, paid a lot of dumb tax as a result. And then the next year we got
that individual back and amazingly suddenly like everything got fixed.
>> Wow. >> So what you learn is if you're going to
do something different, you have to hire the right people who know exactly what
they're doing. Go hire the best person that you know in that. Pay them super
super well. Give them a piece of the business if necessary and have them run
it, you know, and they can teach you. >> Hey, I'm ready to talk about the signal.
In our first interview that we did together on the street, you shared a
statistic with me and I'm going to have you share it again because I don't want
to butcher it. Is that what 40 or 50% of people in today's world that make over
$2 million a year own boring sexy businesses? What what is the statistic?
>> 40. the Wall Street Journal. Um they did an article what's called the stealthy
wealthy and [snorts] uh there's a professor out of Princeton
that researches people like us the boring blueco collar jobs um 43% of
people in the top.1% of income earners so not top 1% top.1% so 2.3 million or
more per year are boring bluecollar businesses.
>> Yeah. and it's growing. >> And I I want you to talk about that
because, you know, you mentioned it in our, you know, interview that we did in
prior to this was that a lot of people are very focused on, you know, hey, I
want to own a restaurant because it's sexy, but but the they have the highest
failure rate and the margins aren't that good. But portal potty businesses,
they've got great margins and they're scalable. So, how what are some of these
boring businesses that, you know, obviously, you know, pest control's kind
of been your domain that you think that there's an opportunity for people to
really make a kill in in today's world? >> Yeah. So, uh, if you look at what's
happening right now, you have the, um, this older generation, uh, the boomers
that are retiring, >> like they call it the silver tsunami.
>> Yeah. They call it the silver tsunami, right? And many of them, the businesses
are smaller and they don't have anybody to sell to because their kids don't want
it because it's not sexy, you know, and they're having a hard time trying to
find other people to buy it. So, there's a lot of ways to do this where you can,
you know, find some uh, somebody who want they'd rather get make something
than nothing. And so why not, you know, self- finance it or, you know, figure
out something with them to take over the business. It's nice because it gives you
training wheels on a potential business for you to do. It's even nicer if you
have experience in that industry and then you find somebody else to kind of
say, "Yeah, I'll mentor you." It's almost like you're the the son they
didn't have. >> Yeah. [laughter]
>> That they they wanted to train and give this to.
>> But this is a personal question for the three of us because obviously he
mentioned that whenever we kind of go into, you know, different businesses
like like keep the main thing the main thing essentially, right? like you've
got a media company, build the vertical, grow it, right? And the different things
that are working well. But it's like >> we we haven't done that too many times
like veering off the path. And I think I think uh just as we keep getting bigger,
we have more and more opportunity to do more things. You know,
>> some of these things are hard to say no to.
>> We we have a great we have a great saying that um concentration builds
wealth, diversification keeps it. And so I feel like we've been very
concentrated. And so we're starting to get to that point where it's like, hey,
do we we're still going to keep the main thing the main thing and keep vertically
integrating with that. But like when we think about diversifying into other
plays just cuz we have more capital, we have more resources, connections, it
it's always an interesting thing to think about. It's just like do we just
pour it all back in or do we go to this other play over here?
>> Yeah. >> The the the question was is that is like
is is there a reality in which you've seen people successfully maybe go out
there and buy like one of these boring businesses and then they just place like
a successful operator in that company but then they you know they own that
company and then they just maybe help facilitate the hiring. Is that like a
reality? >> Yeah. But I've seen that the wealthiest
people, they'll buy a business and they'll find a great well ideally they
just want to buy a great business that already has a great operator and then
they lock that operator up. So uh my my brother-in-law has an orthodontics
practice and he worked at like one of these private equity owned orthodontics
practices that are rolling up practices and what they do is they actually sign
up the orth the orthodontist for five years to have to stay with them, right?
because they want that talent and they know that the customer base is going to
stay with them longer if they have the same orthodontist there. So similar,
right? If you go buy a business, you really want to lock up the people who
are there. Or you may have a business that's not doing as well and you bring
in the right team, right? You bring in the right operator to oversee it and to
run it well and you pay them really well, give them a piece of the business
and things go great. Trying to figure it all out on your own, it's it's tough. It
takes years to get really good at something, right?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, James, look. It looks like we uh we got to dive in and
uh learn how to be the best at the car wash industry. I'm I'm just kidding.
Great great business, but you're not going to see any of the three of us here
be the operator of that business. >> So, you know, there's uh there's so many
things that you would just never think of, right? Like I have a friend that
does medical waste services. I mean, that's pretty unsexy.
>> Oh, yeah. [laughter] Hard to say.
>> That sounds terri. >> It's gross, right? But um but yeah, like
35% margins, like incredible [snorts] how much money the thing makes because
nobody really wants to do it. >> But you know, we talked about pulling
businesses, but when we move a little bit more into like wealth preservation
and I asked you kind of what you're investing right now, you mentioned that,
you know, I think it was the day of that you wrote like a multi-million dollar
check into a anthropic. >> Yep.
>> Could you the third time too? [laughter] >> The third time too.
>> So I I want to ask how how do you get that deal flow? You know what I mean?
That that's personal question, but yeah, >> 100. Yeah. if you want to talk about
kind of maybe is it like how you're assessing some of these deals where
you're putting a lot of capital into and then maybe a little bit more about like
the deal flow as well. >> Yeah. said that was probably one of the
number one question. I went through and read the comments that were in there and
then I tried to post like to a few people so that but the number one
question was you can invest in Anthropic it's it's not public but the thing is
you can if you have enough money right the uh so the way you do it is you
either have to be with the right investment firm you know some Goldman
Sachs Morgan Stanley Iconic I'm I'm with Iconic and they get you special access
you know but you have to have at least 100 million just to even be with Iconic
right [laughter] it's trick is because
>> you got to be in the big league. >> The first step is to have 100 million.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, you're put in a different league right now.
>> Well, that's the thing, right? Like it's frustrating, right? Because the rich get
richer. You know that saying, but it is they have so much money. It's the same
thing. A lot of times they're going out to the endowments, you know, the
colleges, who whoever has these massive amounts of money because they they don't
it's almost like the same legal paperwork, right? Like they don't want
to have to, you know, have so much, you know, they don't want like $5 from
somebody or $20. They they want a few great investors who can bring a lot.
>> Yeah. It's like if we can go to like even a hundred people, you know, we can
get five million each from all of them that and we're done. That's great.
>> Yeah. >> Yeah.
>> For someone who's made a lot of money, you know, I'm sure it's kind of hard to
trust, you know, this wealth manager who's maybe out of college or maybe
doesn't have that same amount of money themselves. How can someone go about
really vetting someone to see they are who they say they are? And how did you
go about ultimately selecting, hey, I want to work with this person to manage
my money? >> Yeah. Um, I looked at three dozen
different groups before I really said, okay, this is the one I'm going to go
with and probably stick with them long term. For me, what I wanted was access.
And you can go to a lot of these big banks, but they may not get you access
into these unique special deals. And that was one of the cool things that
iconic had. Initially uh the founder Devesh he uh worked with Mark Zuckerberg
um when Mark wasn't worth that much and then you know Mark obviously did really
well but they had this idea of why don't we combine like Mark with uh maybe like
Reed Hoffman or Jack Dorsey or all these other tech entrepreneurs because they
kind of many of them knew each other and then we can act like an endowment. If we
pull our money we we're like a bigger thing and we can invest into all these
unique companies. And so that that was kind of my strategy. I heard it. I'm
like, I totally get it. It's all about access because initially I tried to go
out and invest on my own. And I mean, you could literally have a whole other
job calling up different, you know, private equity firms or venture capital
firms and trying to invest in different things or do direct investments. And I
just realized, nah, it's not what I want to do. It's not really my preference to
have a whole other career in this. >> Yeah. And early on in the podcast, you
mentioned that, you know, when you were first really starting to get savvy about
sales and when you were kind of in that midst of like, you know, getting a lot
of rejection, you went to a bookstore and you started to read 90 minutes a
day. How many books have you read? >> Hundreds and hundreds of books. How many
books have you read? >> Well, let's see. I read about two books
a month. Uh, if you do that over 20 years times, you know,
>> so you it's safe to say probably over 500 books.
>> Oh, yeah, for sure. >> Really? Yeah.
>> Could you give us some 800 something like that? are, you know, some of the
most essential books to your personal development that you'd recommend to
people, you know, maybe maybe we can split this into two categories. People
that are starting a business and people that are looking to like really scale
and become that, you know, expert entrepreneur. What are the most
essential books to your personal development?
>> There's so many. So, initially, right, it was all sales books. So, Zig Ziggler,
Tom Hopkins, Brian Tracy, like all the old sales guys. Uh, and then also later,
I got into body language. So like Joe Navaro uh what everybody's saying love
it the the definitive book of body language incredible um and then and
trying to like understand wealth you know I said rich dad poor dad [laughter]
read the cash flow quadrant like all those books read Napoleon Hill think and
grow rich uh you know Dale Carnegie um so many uh there's there's so much you
can learn but from a scaling standpoint uh there's two books that I loved so if
you're like a small business owner or want to know how to go from small to
medium. Uh read Tony Sha's delivering happiness. And there was a second one I
just read recently uh about a year ago. It's by Will Gera. Uh shoot, I'm
forgetting the name of it right now. Unreasonable hospitality. It feels like
delivering happiness 2.0. But delivering happiness is all about Tony's. He built
a company and sold it for like 250 million, but he's miserable. And what he
realized is when the company was growing really fast, they didn't have uh core
values set up. They didn't really have a culture they were trying to create and
so they were just hiring anybody for the resume but they weren't hiring you know
you can actually hire not just for the resume but also for the people you know
and make it a really really fun culture. So when he started to do Zappos, that
was a commitment he had. So they created these core values. They had a whole
hiring process to make sure they brought in the right people. But then Tony, they
had so much success in doing it and they had such great u employee retention and
customer retention. Then they started letting you tour their facilities. And
so that was one of the headquarters I went and toured and you just it's just
so fun. There's so many different things. They just thought outside the
box and I loved them. Like they initially started as a shoe sales or a
shoe company. Like it's what's sexy about that, right?
>> Oh, yeah. >> 100%. Well, David, we like to end these
podcasts off with two questions for our guests. I'm gonna start and and Jack
will finish us up here. So, David, 49 years old today.
>> Yep. >> 49. You know, if we were to die tomorrow
and you could leave one last message, one last guiding principle with the
younger generation with your children, what would that be?
>> Don't worry how well you do in school. um try, you know, try to get great
grades, you know, push hard. But the information age and with AI coming,
you're going to do great later on if you if you're just willing to put your butt
in a chair and like study and you can be passionate and obsessive about
something, that's what you're going to do great at. Everything is about time.
Persistence is genius in disguise. Um talent is directly proportional to
desire. So if you really really want it and you will put the time in, I promise
you there's a way to learn on the internet partially from you guys, right?
The podcast, all the master class, like the there's so many things that you can
utilize today. Uh and AI is like my new best friend. Like it's my business
mentor. I just constantly talking to it, brainstorming new ideas, and it's so
much fun. >> Yes, sir. And David, with the life and
career that you've led, how do you want to be remembered? I don't know. I don't really think about
that too much. Um, I'd say that the funnest thing for me
was always training people and helping them develop a skill set for success.
And you know, when you're a broke college student and somebody says,
"Here's a way to make tens of thousands of dollars every summertime or hundreds
of thousands of dollars or even a million dollars for a few freaks in
nature out there." It's life-changing. And I know for me personally like I was
never going to starve again. I knew I had a way to make very good money. Uh
and I love that. I I hope that I'm
remembered maybe for developing leaders. Um Gandhi said that uh you know it's the
sign of a good leader is not how many followers one has but you know how many
leaders one creates. M and I've I've loved seeing so many people join our
organization, you know, at a entry level role and work their way up into a
management position or an executive level position. It's just it's always
been inspiring to me to see people take the opportunity and run with it.
>> I love that. David, this was an amazing conversation. Thank you so much for your
time today and we really appreciate you coming on the Hard Knox podcast. And for
everybody that's watching right now, be sure to like and subscribe for amazing
content, amazing episodes coming every week with the most fascinating business
owners in the entire world, just like Mr. David Royce right here. We're going
to put the link down in the description to David, all of his social channels.
That way you can follow him, reach out to him, maybe he'll sneak in a piece of
advice to some of the people out there. >> And if you're looking for sales, you can
go to aptiverecruiting.com. I guess that's my pitch. If someone felt
motivated% Yeah. No, definitely. We're going to put the link down in the
description to Aptive as well. That way they can check that out, follow along
with you as well. And we're going to put the link down in the description to get
access to the number one entrepreneur community in the entire world called the
School of Mentors where every week we host live calls with eight, nine, and 10
figureure entrepreneurs just like Mr. Royce right here. He's done a call in
the community. You came in, you mentored some people. How was that?
>> That's awesome. Yeah, I love that you just get peppered with questions for an
hour and 45 minutes or [laughter] whatever.
>> 100%. 100%. But you changed some lives in that process as well. You definitely
did, man. The people loved it and we're super happy to have you on. So, we can't
wait to see you on the inside on the next live call inside the School of
Mentors.