I remember to this day my father lifting
me onto his shoulders and we looked over the wall of the big house to watch the
helicopter land. I remember saying, "Dad, I want one of those one day." And
for the people watching right now, where are you heading after this podcast?
>> I'm going back up to Yorkshire for a meeting by helicopter. The man that
built the company HomeServe into a company that sold for 4.1 billion, not
dollars, pounds. >> Proper money. You approach somebody to
put more money into the company for this money like we'll give you 10% of the
company. If he'd had 10% of HomeServe when we sold, it'd been worth 400
million pounds. Every day he regrets the [music] decision. That one hurts.
Richard, if me and you died tomorrow and you had one more message to leave with
the younger generation, what would that be? That would be What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast. I'm James and I'm here with Jack and
Josh and we have an incredible guest for you all today. Our first podcast ever in
London. The man that built the company HomeServe into a company that sold for
4.1 billion, not dollars, pounds. >> Proper money. Proper money. There we go.
You built this company from the ground up, only took investment twice, and you
built an incredible company, you know, emergency home services, plumbing.
Everybody worries about a plumbing emergency and difficult to get somebody
that will come out straight away and then most people be landed with a big
repair bill. Where I want to get things started today is a lot of people come to
that realization that the only way that they're going to build generational
wealth and really become wealthy is when they're in their later in life, right?
30s, 40s, 50s, right? Where they've worked their entire lives in corporate
America. You had your realization at four [snorts] years old. Richard, take
me You're 61 today. Take us back to four years old. I feel really old compared to
you three guys. So, but yeah,
I was born in the north of England and I remember to this day my father lifting
me onto his shoulders and we looked over the wall of the big house and watched
the helicopter land. I remember saying, "Dad, I want one of those one day." And
he said, "Don't be in the civil service like me earning a pittance. You need to
run your own business." I found out three years later it was Lord Hanson,
the famous industrialist of the 1960s, flying his helicopter in to have lunch
with his parents on a Sunday. And he was my influence. I knew age four I wanted
to be an entrepreneur even though at the time I didn't know the word. And for the
people watching right now, where are you heading after this podcast? I'm I'm
going back up to Yorkshire for a meeting by helicopter from
Battersea Heliport and then I'm flying to
one of my portfolio businesses I'm invested in in Exeter back to London
this evening. So, Richard, you had that fundamental realization about becoming
an entrepreneur, working for yourself, at four years old. But tell us a little
bit about growing up. Did you end up working any jobs? Did you think about
going into engineering at any point in time like your dad or kind of what was I
know that you started a kennel business. Tell us about some of those early
companies that you started. >> Yeah, I wanted to get into business
right away and so I got a as a present from my grandfather
a New Zealand white rabbit and I thought, "How can I make money out of
that? I'll buy a second one, get them breeding, sell those rabbits to my
friends at school. Once I've sold them all a rabbit, then I thought, "How can I
make more money? Well, they go on holiday every year, so I will run a
rabbit kennels and charge them for looking after the rabbit when they bring
it to me when they're on holiday." That then turned into a Ricardo, the famous
magician of the north, and I became a children's magician. And
probably my first business was Most kids age 12 in the UK in those days would
have been making Airfix sort of plastic models. I wanted
to do something that would make money. I got a friend who was a fisherman and
I thought that was a bit boring. But he tied flies for fishing and I thought, "I
can do that. And if I tie these flies, I can then sell them onto the local
fishing tackle shop and then thought, "They're making money in selling me the
materials and buying back the ready-tied flies. I'm going to cut them out and set
up a mail order fly tying material business." And
so I did that. This was in the days well before the internet and I believe in
market research. My market research cost me 8 pounds. It was 20 words in the back
of Trout and Salmon magazine saying, "Fly tying tackle products, ring up for
your free catalog." I didn't have one. That was my market research. I wanted to
know that people would call. 30 people called. I printed a catalog and that was
my first proper business. The big frustration was I didn't meet any of my
customers. So, I thought I need to do a pop-up stand at the National Game Fair.
100,000 fishermen and so I met some of my customers. It
was at the very first Game Fair that the wives and girlfriends and sisters of all
those fishermen said, "Ooh, those fishing flies would make really nice
earrings." That was my second bit of market research done. Off with the end
of the hook, on with kidney wires, and I pivoted into my next business, high
fashion jewelry. I was going to call these earrings danglers.
There was a free marketing consultant, a government scheme came out and said,
"Richard, you can't possibly call these earrings danglers. That infers something
unseemly and organic and I suggest that you call them hookers." So, with my 100
pounds marketing budget, enough to print 100 press releases, "Hookers set to hit
UK high streets." Tens of thousands of teenage girls rushed out to buy hookers
earrings in hair salons up and down the UK, but after six months it ended.
And that was not going to be the big business that bought me my first
helicopter. I ended up going to work for Procter & Gamble in marketing for nearly
four years, learning the business, but I wanted to
keep my entrepreneurial hand in. And the big opportunity was buying
houses and renting them out by the room, 40 pounds a week. Did that with a
business partner. We bought about 10 houses.
And you know what the biggest problem was? Always on a Friday evening, phone
would ring, one or two of the tenants saying, "We've got a blocked drain or
we've got water pouring out of a radiator." You could not get a Geordie
plumber in Newcastle upon Tyne for love nor money on a Friday evening in
Newcastle. They're all out drinking beer. So, we thought that's the big
opportunity. We'll set up an emergency plumbing business. We'll call it A1 Fast
Fix to get in the front of the Yellow Pages section.
We put our life savings into the business. How much money did you put in?
50,000 pounds between us. And literally saw the money go down the
drain in six months. I I I I want to touch on that. I believe that like when
the money drained down, you actually you approached somebody to put more money
into the company and you he kind of gave them an ultimatum. It was just kind of
like, "Hey, you know, for this money like we'll give you 10% of the company
or we'll do 20% interest." Could you tell that story a little bit and how how
maybe that turned out? Yeah, this is um in end of 1992, there was a knock on the
office door. Bailiffs. And they they were there to take away our office
furniture and computers because we hadn't paid the VAT bill.
And um so we managed to say, "Don't take away our computers and office furniture.
We will um agree a repayment plan." I had a friend called Simon Blunt and he
lent me 10,000 pounds. And he saved the saved the business from the bailiffs
and he had the opportunity to either get 20% interest rate or 10% of the company.
He chose 20% interest rate. I paid him back 10,000 pounds plus 3,000 pounds
profit a year later. If he'd had 10% of HomeServe when we sold, it'd been worth
400 million pounds. It's crazy. >> Every day he regrets the decision. But
we're still friends and that's what matters. That one hurts.
That one hurts here that you have that opportunity and it's like it's almost
like people that invest into Amazon or to these big companies where they lend
them money and they ended up taking out the interest instead of equity.
One of the things that I'm curious about is you had put 50,000 dollars in, you
got an additional loan. What was going on with that early business model that
just wasn't working and then how did you end up pivoting to finding something
that did actually work? The cost of the Yellow Pages was too high. People only
have a plumbing emergency every five years, so there was no repeat business,
so the business model didn't work. I came across a a little water company in
the south of England that had developed plumbing insurance cover. I copied the
model, improved it, so we added in uh
blocked drain cover, internal plumbing emergency cover, and then we signed up a
another water company to use their brand name and literally with the last 10,000
pounds before the business went bust, we sent out a mail shot
to 1,000 customers and we knew the business with 23 people in it was about
to be closed down and we got 38 people sent in a check for 50 pounds. A 3.8%
take-up from direct mail. I remember getting on my office desk in front of
those 23 people that were fearful of losing their jobs and said, "Yes, we've
made it." And literally almost the rest is
history. We went from losing half a million
pounds in that first full year making three quarters of a million
pounds in the following year. We went to all the water companies in the UK and
said we've developed this affinity branding
model. We want to use your brand name like Thames Water
and your customer list and we'll give you a commission every year a customer
signs up and every year they renew on our annual AAA cover for the home.
And that was the magic model. But I can't take the credit for that
idea. I copied the idea, improved it, and then
scaled it. Richard, we were talking about this earlier that you know, we're
taught in school growing up that to copy someone else's work is a bad thing,
right? But you kind of have that fundamental belief that it's I think
kind of one of your rules on how to make a billion dollars is that find something
that works, emulate it, copy it, and just find a way to make it better. Can
you teach us your philosophy on that real quick?
>> Yeah, how many people do we hear out there and they say, "Well, I had a great
business idea, then I found out somebody done it, so I didn't do it."
>> [clears throat] >> My message to them is that's great. If
somebody's doing it, it works. Copy what they're doing, do it slightly
better, and then think bigger. So, absolutely copying is um good. That's
the step number one to building a billion-pound or billion-dollar
business. So, before we go any deeper in this podcast, give us the nine steps to
making a billion pounds in today's world. Give us the nine steps right
here. Copy and pivot is number one. Number two is get an investor, but get
the investor when you want to scale. Bootstrap your business until you prove
your model, otherwise you need to give away too much of the equity. Number
three get some coachman. That means get a paid business coach, get a free
mentor, uh somebody with the gray hairs like me that has made all mistakes and
got some learnings that they could apply to your business. That was part of my
model in getting help from Nigel Morris when I wanted to scale America.
Number four bricks and clicks and paper.
Anybody would think we're in a digital marketing world, but actually direct
mail shots still work. Think about your letterbox at home and your doormat. Far
less direct mail today than 10 years ago, therefore you get a bigger share of
the doormat, more likely for that direct mail shot to make it to the coffee table
or the kitchen table. So, combine it with online marketing,
which today is really expensive. Junk mail today is emails. Think of our
inboxes, absolutely crammed with those, so do direct mail.
And bricks every business should have a physical
presence. That doesn't need to be your own retail
store, it could be get your products into somebody else's store, into um a
department store where you can showcase your products. Some people will go there
and say, "Great products." But they go to the um uh the website and buy it B2C
online from uh that original company. Step five is
hire your replacement. Entrepreneurs are loads of ideas, need to focus. Hire a
proven chief exec. That doesn't mean leave your business. Step up to work on
the business rather than in your business. Step six go global with
locals. Really important in the UK cuz we're a small island and we need to be
expanding our business proven business to America, which is the great dream for
most British entrepreneurs to be over there. But get the business model right
and then hire locals in the country. Americans buy from Americans. Don't have
a Brit running your American business. Step number seven is evolution, not
revolution. Let's think of all those businesses that
didn't keep evolving like Blockbuster Video
like BlackBerry. They are dead or a shadow of their former selves. You've
got to keep your model evolving, otherwise you will die. Step eight
is if we had a show of hands, who has a to-do list? Most people would put their
hand up cuz business is about getting stuff done. How many people have got a
not-to-do list? I didn't have. I learned I've got to have one.
A not-to-do list is more important than a to-do list. The answer is you need
both. But entrepreneurs have too many ideas, they need to be focused on a
single idea and executing it really well. And
step number nine is hone your character.
It's about the personal characteristics of the founder entrepreneur. I used to
do performance reviews with all of my team and make sure they're enforced.
What are you good at? What are you bad at? Everybody would leave those meetings
miserable, particularly me when I used to have them with my chairman.
Uh I was bad at loads of stuff, only good at a few things. And I learned hone
your character, focus on your strengths. Hire people to do the things that we
don't like doing, that we're not good at. Other people can do them much
better. Masterclass. Absolutely. And And Richard, I want to
dive into a little uh a lot of those steps deeper, but I want to touch on
something that we were talking about before. Um you broke down the nine steps
of how to make a a billion-pound business. Uh you know,
we're talking about you don't have to necessarily reinvent the wheel. Often
times like some of the most successful companies aren't reinventing the wheel.
You know, we work with a ton of content creators and we almost say that like,
"Hey, if you want to get really good at content, you know, trying to just come
up with an idea of like a really good content page might not be the best route
to success. It's better to look at the market and see like what content is
really hot and proven and trending and being able to take that and be like,
"You know what? I think I can make a video like that, but in my niche or with
my own spin on it." When I hear your entrepreneurial journey though, it seems
that like, you know, in in today's world everybody's trying to come up with like
what's that new hot thing that I I need to build a company. But when I listen to
your journey, you're taking the fundamental principle of
entrepreneurship of seeing a problem that the market has and creating a
solution for it. Everybody wants this like these sexy businesses, but you went
into plumbing. And so for you like what are what do you think are like the top
two to three businesses that people should really be getting into
uh over the next couple years? They've got to be service businesses because we
all need additional services. So, uh van-based, ideally with some technical
expertise that goes with that. I would say to every budding entrepreneur, go
and buy um Entrepreneur magazine read the list of the top 500 franchises out
there and decide which one takes your fancy.
Copy the idea, research it. Don't buy the franchise, set it up yourself with
your own directly employed people, then you fully own the business, you're not
paying somebody else a franchise fee, and that would be the magic model.
Richard, is there any part of the trades that you think is going to get disrupted
like crazy in the next couple of years? In the States there's a lot of buzz and
talk about how electricians are going to make a lot of money, especially with all
the data centers that are being built. Do you find here in the UK or just any
parts of the world that there's going to be an immense amount of opportunity in
in a particular part of the trades in the coming years? I think we all want to
have um people to do things for us. So, any
service where um uh it can't be disrupted by AI. It can
be made more efficient, but you need somebody, an individual, a human to go
out to somebody's home to provide that service. So, I think there's an
opportunity across the board. Uh electrics I do agree, but that's also
about um new forms of heating, uh about solar generation, uh more electric
vehicles. Um so, those would be some of the areas. Let me ask you a personal
question for the three of us. Richard, the three of us have began to
to buy some real estate properties and you know, we we we've got a a pretty
profitable business. We're we're making some really good money. Would it be a
bad idea if we wanted to go buy a boring business for ourselves to own and have
somebody else kind of operate it? What do you think about that?
>> that's a great idea. And actually going and buying a small business that is
proven and profitable, uh a retirement sale, somebody that's getting out of it.
Uh it's 97% of businesses set up in the UK fail
within 5 years. So, it's a lot le- less risky to have your own business if you
go and buy one. It's easier to buy revenue than create revenue. Exactly.
But buy the business with somebody else's money. It's called vendor finance
and you'd have to put in a bit of money, but then you go to the owner that's
retiring and say, "I want to buy your business. I'm going to keep it running
and maintain your legacy, uh but I need you to let me pay you over three or four
years as I grow the business." One of the things that I realized that you
talked about even from an early age is market research. And you had expanded
this company to how many countries? 10. 10 countries. And one of the things that
you have one of the things that you mentioned as well is that Americans buy
from Americans. You've validated the model, and for
someone out there who's looking to expand into a different country where it
may there might be different policies, different culture.
How do you go about validating that idea and doing that market research before
actually investing a a ton of money and moving the business out there? It's the
job of the founder to go to that new country and check it out. Before they do
that, they need to put in place their successor to keep running the UK and
growing it. And then I would recommend any founder doesn't just look at one
country, but looks at several and decides which is going to be the easiest
opportunity. Doesn't need to be the biggest
opportunity. Better to be small and beautiful. Uh many British entrepreneurs
rush to America. They'd be far better to prove their business in a smaller
country closer to home before going to the big opportunity. So they could be
uh launching in Ireland or launching in France or Spain before going to America.
Then the key bit is saying uh how similar should my business model
be in that foreign country? It's a 10% rule.
If you need to change your business model by more than 10%, don't go there.
If you think one day you're going to be in 20 different countries and if it's
20% different, recipe for complexity and disaster. Ideally,
make it only 3% different. You could have a different brand name in different
countries, particularly if you were buying a business to get into that
particular country that's doing exactly what you're doing, but have a consistent
model. And then hire locals to run that
business once you've set it up yourself as the founder, you know it's going to
work, then bring in uh really good Americans or uh French people. I really
like one of your principles of how how you phrase it that it's like uh
bringing in capital at the right time. Uh we we know a lot of, you know, we
come across a lot of different entrepreneurs that they start a company
and they just they raise, they raise, they raise, they raise, they raise money
over and over and over again at the beginning. Um but I'm a big fan of
bootstrapping a company at
but for you I feel like this principle maybe came from a place of of like a
lesson that you learned maybe. Um where did where were you able to kind of craft
the the principle of you need to take on capital after you've bootstrapped when
it's when it's the business model is proven and it's time to scale? Could you
break that down a little bit more for us? I tried to make my business too big
too quickly. We ran out of money once. We brought on board a water company that
put in half a million pounds, but they took 52% of the equity. I learned that
uh you need to prove your business model through bootstrapping. And then when you
want to go big, take the capital, not when you're trying to prove the model. I
got in April 1993 half a million pounds landed in the
business bank account and I thought, "Right, let's go for it. Let's grow the
business using that water company investor money."
And every month the business grew and I thought we'll get economies of scale and
get to profit. Guess what? We didn't. I took losses of
10,000 pounds a month to 50,000 pounds a month. A year later we'd run out of
money down to our last 10,000 pounds before I copied the plumbing insurance
model I found elsewhere. So the learnings are bootstrap.
Don't sell your equity cheap. Take on investment to scale when it's proven and
therefore you'll only need to give up a minority of your business. Don't give up
a majority. Uh those are the golden rules. If someone has a business that is
profitable, it is doing well. Let's just say it's for example doing two to three
million dollars a year in profit. Why would you recommend that person to seek
investors and to bring people on versus continuing to bootstrap a already
successful business? Because it's not just about getting the money. It's
finding an investor that can help. And for many entrepreneurs they are
first-time business people. And so it's getting the
help and advice as well as the money. But it also means that uh as
entrepreneurs we worry about what if it goes wrong. And there's always a crisis
in the world whether it's Brexit or COVID or a war. And businesses can go
bust. So I'd always say at the right point
when you've proven your business, take some money off the table. Pay off your
debts. Make sure that your family are not going to be on the street if it did
go wrong. And then you've got the comfort of knowing you've got a bit of
money behind you. You can take a bigger risk. And you can scale and go quicker
and hire some really good people, but that's going to be really expensive.
That could take your three million dollars of profit backwards for a while.
If you've got somebody in there helping you and with some of their money, I
think that takes away some of the pressure. Richard, we were talking about
it earlier that when you first had gone global to America, you had met a mentor
of yours. And he gave you two pieces of advice. Can you share with with us what
those were? This mentor was Nigel Morris, a British co-founder of Capital
One, the credit card company in the US. He said, um "So where you based over
here?" Said, "Oh, we're in Miami." Shook his head violently and said,
"Absolutely not. If you want to be a serious American business, you need to
be based between Boston, New York, Washington, D.C. East Coast, five-hour
time difference for um relative to the UK." And we were we were in Miami and we
couldn't hire serious business people. They either wanted to go to the beach at
4:00 p.m. or smoke dope. That is not how you build a serious business.
His second piece of advice was he said, um
"Who've you got running your UK business over here?" Said, "Oh, fantastic Brit.
Sent him over here six years ago, but HomeServe America is still relatively
small. We're struggling to sign big utility partners over here." Shook his
head again. And said, "Americans buy from Americans.
Hire an American to be your chief exec." When I did that and took the advice in
2010, HomeServe America was making 10 million dollars annual profit. Last year
we made 300 million dollars annual profit. Hired a guy called Tom Rusin.
Proven chief exec. 16 years later, uh he's still running the business. One of
one of your, you know, principles to building a a billion pound company is
you have to you should hire a business coach. Uh and it seems like, you know,
Nigel Morris was one of those people for you. How could someone really go about
getting a mentor or getting a business coach? You even said that like don't
even just seek out one out, like hire one. Yeah, we all worry I think that why
would somebody that's really successful give me help, but the fact is every
successful person has had many, many mentors over the years. So they're happy
to give something back. >> Even today you have a mentor I believe,
right? >> Yeah. I and I've had a number of mentors
over the years. My mentor today uh runs a very big private equity house
and I've got an investment business and I'm still learning about that.
Um when I was building an online marketplace for the business called
Checkatrade, I went and I signed up uh Steve Kaufer,
the co-founder of TripAdvisor, uh Jeff Boyd, the chairman and
previously chief exec of um Booking.com, and Scott Forbes, the American chairman
of Rightmove. And each of them helped me to um
build a uh an online platform for tradespeople called Checkatrade.
So uh identify the problem or opportunity
that you're trying to solve, work out who could help, and
uh knock down the door until they uh submit and say, "Okay, I will I will
help." And then don't be afraid to change your
mentor when you've got another problem or opportunity that you need to solve.
>> Richard, I wanted to talk real quick about the branding of HomeServe cuz that
wasn't the first name of the company, was it? What was the original name of
the company? >> Um originally it was A1 Fastfix to get
in the front of Yellow Pages. Then we changed it to Home Service Scheme. Yeah.
But scheme in America uh sounds dodgy and um so we got rid of
the word scheme and it became Home Service. >> who's come on this podcast as well. His
name's Tommy Mello and his company is A1 Garage Doors. They're they're now a a
billion dollar garage door company. >> Yeah. He's an incredible entrepreneur
and he talks I think he wrote a he wrote a book on it about how in specifically
in the home service business, a lot of these people missed the mark because
they're I'm going to say it perfectly, their branding is They're their
branding is not good at all. It's not attracting them or whatnot. Was did you
notice a certain uptick in the business when you kind of concise the the
branding and and the the name and stuff like that? Was that an important factor
for your success or did it really not have a big impact on your company? In
the very early days and in many countries then we used the utility
brands as the the name for the home assistance cover.
>> [clears throat] >> Today in America, Home Service are a
well-known brand. I'm a big believer that
uh have a brand which says what you do. And keep it short because then it's
memorable. And um Tom Rusin, that chief exec of
HomeServe America, he is the star of our TV advertising. Now, I don't even think
you guys know this, but we have a friend who's with us on this podcast right
here. What is that? This is a hedgehog. And you and you learned this concept
from a book called Good to Great which everybody here is familiar with. Could
you explain what the hedgehog means to you? Yeah, I spent two of the best days
of my life uh training with Jim Collins in his research laboratory in Boulder,
Colorado. And um he talks about foxes and hedgehogs.
And foxes are every entrepreneur. Uh we have an idea a day
and um uh we lack focus. And he says, "We need
to be hedgehogs." That if anybody comes along with a
hairbrained idea, we put up our prickles, we ignore it, and we keep
going in our methodical direction. Every fox, every entrepreneur, if they can't
transform themselves into becoming a hedgehog, then they need to hire a
hedgehog. And every business uh needs a hedgehog
strategy. A hedgehog strategy answers three questions in one sentence of no
more than 20 words. Those three questions are uh what are
you passionate about in your business? That will normally be your purpose.
Secondly, what can you be the best at? And thirdly, how you going to make
money? What's your economic engine? Answer those three questions with one
sentence. I now run a business called Business
Leader here in the UK, and that's a growth program for entrepreneurs that
want to scale a business. And uh we wrote our hedgehog strategy
about a year ago. At Business Leader, we inspire our founder and CEO members to
fast forward their growth through new unique content and facilitated learning.
That is all we do. The 35 people in Business Leader, they
read that statement, and if they're doing something that doesn't fit with
it, they need to stop doing it, and that's goes on the not to do list.
Richard, we like to end these podcasts off with two last super quick questions
for our guest. I'm going to start, and Jack's going to end us off right here.
Richard, if me and you died tomorrow, and you had one more message to leave
with the younger generation, what would that be? That would be think about what
really interests you. Is that are you sales and marketing
person? Are you a finance guy? Are you an operations person? When you've done
that, don't jump right into business. Go and work for a a big company that you
really admire in that discipline. Then go and work for a smaller company.
Get that experience. And then, rather than starting a business, go and buy a
small business. Take the learning that you've got from working for others, and
use vendor finance, uh the person that's selling you the business, to finance
your buying, so you can get in there with a small amount of money and very
low risk. And Richard, you you built an incredible 4.1 billion-pound business uh
leaving a legacy for entrepreneurs of uh nine steps to creating a billion-pound
company. But how do you want to be remembered? I want to be the person that
with my team doubled the number of large companies here in the UK. We only have 7
1/2 thousand of them. We need to double that.
Brits are uh much more introverted. We need to
learn from our American counterparts, and it's all about scaling mid-size
companies. There are a lot of startups here in the UK. There are relatively few
large companies. We've got to help those mid-size businesses turning over between
3 million pounds and 100 million to scale and make it big. To be able to be
successful in America, and that's how we create the next billion-pound
businesses. I love it. Well, Richard, thank you so much for being with us
today on the Hard Knocks Podcast. This was incredible. Thank you. Appreciate
you. And for everybody watching right now, be sure to like and subscribe for
amazing content, cuz we're going all over the world to bring you guys the
most incredible business owners, founders, billionaires, in every
industry that you can think about. We're also going to put the links down to
Richard's uh Instagrams and channels below, that way everybody can stay up to
date with you and all the great stuff that you're going to be doing. As well
as we're going to put the link down to the School of Mentors, which is the
number one most powerful entrepreneur community and network in the entire
world, where every single week you get direct access to the eight, nine, and
10-figure entrepreneurs, the millionaires, the billionaires that we
interview on the School of Hard Knocks. They come directly to mentor you on live
calls every week inside the School of Mentors. So we can't wait to see you on
the inside. With that being said, we'll see you in the next episode.