Dr. Jason Worland, the inventor of the
massage gun, an invention that has changed the lives of millions of people
around the world. Did you have any idea that what you were going to create was
going to turn into the multiund million dollar brand that it is today? Not at
all. Where I want to get [music] things started is 2007, you were in a
motorcycle accident and I t-boned the side of the car head first, flipped over
the car, and I landed on the freeway. You know, I didn't die. What did that do
to your perspective on life? >> Next, I got to keep going on this
mission. Like, nothing's going to stop me. Not even that. I really had nothing
in my clinic [music] that was going to help me. I was sitting in one of my
treatment rooms. We had a vibrating table and the reason it vibrates is the
vibration into the body makes you relax. My shoulder hurts. So I just flipped the
table on and I rested my arm on the table and the pain went away. So I was
like, what if I had something that went back and forth? And as I was doing that
motion, I thought, wow, I could make something. So I made the first there in
[music] February of 2008. >> You [clears throat] basically birthed a
company out of a problem that you had that you were able to solve. [music]
>> This thing saved my life. Would you have rather kept your health and never have
created the gun [music] or would you have kept what happened to you?
>> What's going on everyone? Welcome back to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James and I'm here with Jack and Josh and we are out in Los Angeles with
an incredible guest for you all today. Dr. Jason Worland. He is the inventor of
the massage gun and an invention that has changed the lives of millions of
people around the world. Like I said in our first interview, man, we got our dad
a the gun for Christmas. I I got a story about that later, but
>> we're going to get into it. So, you founded the company initially the body
in 2008, eventually now rebanded. It is now uh I'm sorry, it was
>> Thera Gun. Yeah, >> I I'll say that again. We'll close this
up. You founded the company in 2008 and it was The Gun and it was eventually
rebranded to The Body. But we're going to be diving into all of it today. where
I want to get things started is in 2007 you were in a motorcycle accident and
you know you kind of came to that realization where you know a lot of the
relief that you were getting going to doctors and clinics and stuff like that
was temporary but you wanted to find something that was lasting that you know
could be with you longer outside of the clinic and did you have any idea in that
moment that what you were going to create was going to turn into you know
the multiund million dollar brand that it is today?
>> No, not at all. the the the I learned this phrase when I was younger and it
came back around when I was going through this experience. Necessity is
the mother of invention. And and I was looking for I had a need. And so that
need made my focus on what I needed really really focused like narrow like a
sniper. And so I was looking around asking everyone, "Do you have anything
that and no one really knew? No one had any solutions." And that just
seemed so crazy to me. I'm like, "I'm on this side of the fence. Like I'm a
doctor. We should know what this is." And no one did. So I I just I happened
on this vibration thing. I had a table in our clinic and I was waiting. Do you
mind if I tell the story real? I was I was I was so the accident happened and I
was going to my clinic to get treated and I remember going to my clinic and
looking around and seeing the modalities that I had and realizing because I was
experiencing the pain, I I immediately knew that like I really had nothing in
my clinic that was going to help me. And that was sort of debilitating because
I'm like, you have to have surgery or medication
>> or both in a lot of cases. But if I wanted an injection, I had to wait till
the inflammation went down. So either way, I was just like, what do I do? So I
was sitting in one of my treatment rooms. Uh we have a we had a vibrating
table that you lay patients on to do traction on them. And the reason it
vibrates is the vibration into the body makes you relax. It's it's almost like a
reflex like the nervous system relaxes when you put a stimulus to it. We'll
talk about how that all became life in my a big part of my life later on. But I
was looking at this table and I was like my shoulder hurts. I have so much pain
going on this side. So I just flipped the table on and I rested my arm on the
on the table and the pain went away. Like all of a sudden I was like, "Oh,"
>> it like someone just went whoop and pulled it out and I sat there for like
30 seconds or so and then the pain started coming back, but I got a taste
of that and I was like, "Why did that work like that?" Like, "What is that?"
So, I started realizing it was part of my nervous system and I obviously can't
take the table home with me. So, I went and asked my my business partner, "Hey,
do we have anything in here that vibrates like this?" He said, "Yeah, I
have a an old tool in the X-ray room. You can go grab it." I don't use it
anymore. It's kind of cumbersome. Blah blah blah. And I went and pulled it out
and I picked up this thing. It was like felt like Pulp Fiction when they open
the the briefcase and like the gold shines, you know, like I was like, "My
god, this thing's going to help me." So, I [snorts] took it home and I started
using it, but it was it vibrated as well. It didn't have a long enough
lasting effect on my body that I could leave it on and it worked the whole
time. When I say work, it'd make the pain go away. And I was I was at a 10
out of 10 in pain. I thought so. It felt that way. So, anything that I could get
was going to give me relief and that vibration seemed to do it, but it wasn't
lasting. It would. So, our body, I realize this at the same time. I'm going
to throw these in here a little bit, but we're we have one of the things that
makes us able to do what we do is accommodation. Our pupils accommodate to
light. Our skin accommodates to temperature. We're constantly
accommodating. And if your body didn't accommodate, then you would be
completely aware of all your clothes and your bracelet and your necklace and your
because your but your body takes that information, it's not super important.
So it kind of accommodates and puts it in this bucket of like, yeah, not big a
deal. That's what was happening with this vibr this vibration. The vibration
was on my body, but it just the ner the nervous system was like, yeah, it's
really cute. You got a lot of pain over here. Let's focus on that. So I thought,
what if I had something that didn't touch the body the whole time? because
the only way my body accommodates to my watch is it's on the whole time, right?
So, I was like, what if I had something that went back and forth? And as I was
doing that motion, I thought, wow, I could make something.
>> So, I just went to my garage. I grew up, my family had a farm. I've worked with
tools, you know, I've been in parts of my life where I had to be really
resourceful. We talked about scouts. You know, you learn a lot of stuff. And so,
I was like, if I can't find this, I'm going to try and make something. So I
made the first the gun in in February of 2008.
>> Was there anything like the massage gun that had existed at that point in time?
>> That's a great question and I'm actually glad you asked that because I normally
say no. But to be fair, I didn't invent these this techn
this modality. This has been around for a really long time. I mean, I've
actually looked it up and this stuff was around in the 50s. They're making these
funny machines that would they'd use on their body, but technology hadn't
advanced long enough. So, I will tell you, I invented the gun.
>> Sure. >> But percussive therapy and the
administration of that has been around for years. I didn't know that at the
time either. It's something that I learned later on like, oh, this is a
modality people use. Typically, percussive therapy is is when you cup
your hands and [snorts] uh with children that have cystic fibrosis, which means
their lungs are full of a lot of mucus and it's really hard for them to have
productive coughs to like get it out. So, you would lay them on the side of a
hospital table and nurses would cup their hands and hit the sides of their
ribs and that heat in that would heat up the tissue and it allow them to cough up
the mucus so they don't die. So that's that's how like barbaric that word was.
So we're trying to re re, you know, rescue this word percussive therapy
um with our products. And I it's really cool to see how people see it now. It's
not like that. It was it's totally different.
>> You you basically birthed a company out of a problem that you had that you were
able to solve. These are my favorite entrepreneur stories that we have at
Hard Knocks. And you know, I could [snorts] have brought it up myself, but
I I that quote that he said, he said, "Necessity is the mother of invention."
>> That's one of my favorite. >> Wow, that's awesome.
>> And uh you know, it's so true. Like we've talked to so many entrepreneurs
and we you know, even in my own personal experience talking I used to work for a
company called Bies like when I was in college. It's like the big gas station.
You know, you know Bucks. Yeah. I used to I used to work for them and I
remember asking the the one of the owners. I said like did you you know
they started 1982. I was like did you ever imagine like it would be this this
big and he said no I just I I I you know bought my first gas station for like 10
grand and that was my only focus. You know we we asked Jimmy John we were just
like hey did you thought you were going to make a billion dollar sandwich
company and he said no I was just trying to get money for weed and beer you
[laughter] know. And so I I I I I get so fascinated
about this because I just wish more people would understand that you don't
have to have this like flashy sexy idea. Just think about like a problem that you
have or that your your city has or just whatever and find a solution to it. And
that's exactly what you did. And so I know that you had a decent amount of
runway in your uh advancement with the with the the gun before you actually
commercialized it. Could you talk about that a little bit of like what the
development that you put into this product to really,
>> you know, make it to what it was and when did you make that decision to
commercialize it? >> It it kind of flows together, you know,
like a >> like a cool tapestry. There's not really
like these moments >> for sure.
>> You know, especially when you're like the guys that you just talked about.
>> Yeah. I didn't for most of the time as I was building this it wasn't it was it
was another thing I was doing that I just felt like I had we can talk about
this but I felt like I owed this to the universe I had a promise that I had made
so in at the end when I got better at 2008 I went back to my clinic never in a
million years would I have thought to bring this tool it was a Makita jigsaw
>> to my clinic like that's just not going to happen
>> and and just for context for everyone watching you were a chirop ractor at the
time. >> Yes. Yes. Sorry. [laughter]
Yeah. That'd be nice to know that. So, I I one day a patient came in. My
secretary handed me this new patient paperwork. I was going through the
paperwork and I realized this guy had a lot of the same injuries that I did and
he had 12 visits. He didn't have a lot of income. He was a it was a bus
collision that he was in head-on bus. He was a driver and hit another bus. So I
was like, that was the first time that it came to me like I can relate with
this. That thing at my house has to help this guy.
So I bring him in doing his exam, take X-rays, come back tomorrow and bring
your wife with you. I have something I think we'll be able to incorporate into
what you're doing. I just had came through what you're going through now.
So there was this really cool moment where like I got what he was same
literally same segment his neck, same body parts. And so it was like I was
treating myself with this guy. So he came back the next day and I brought my
Makita jigsaw and my Ralph's paper bag and pulled it out and turned it on. I
put it on him and and I the feeling he had was enough. I could see it. He was
just like, "Oh." And then I showed his wife. I'm like, "Look, this is what he's
feeling." And she's like, "Oh my god, that's amazing." So I basically helped
him go through the different phases. Like there first it's pain relief. Like
I just needed the pain to be gone. And then the next phase was tension relief
because a lot of the tension you have from your body just spinting from the
pain. You don't realize and you got to go to go to therapy every day and
there's no amount of physical therapy that can release that because you go for
10 minutes and then you're home for three days.
>> So [clears throat] using this thing on myself and realizing like now doing that
same thing to him. So going through those phases with him and then at the
end just helping him recoup like recover um uh what's the word I'm looking for?
Um he's doing his physical therapy. He's getting stronger again. So to be able to
build muscle this there were these phases.
So at the end of his care you know you get to know patients pretty well. You're
you're in their space. You're tucked into their body like you're having
conversations with them. And I had told him like I think this thing's amazing.
He said, "I think this thing is amazing, too." And I had shared with him like, "I
don't know what to do with it. Like, I feel like I need to show this, but how
do I sell these to chiropractors or physical therapists, whatever?" So, at
the end of his care, to answer your question, back to what you were saying,
is end of his care, I hadn't really made the decision yet. I was tinkering. I was
kind of figuring out, and this worked for me, but man, I'm a chiropractor and
I was going to go back to practice to my office, four walls, you know, sign on
the building, that whole thing. And um this at the end of his care, I'd been
out of town to see my family and I flew back and I so I hadn't seen him for a
couple days, not long, but a couple days and he was significantly better. He's in
So I walked back to my office and he was sitting in my office on a on my table
and he was using the the the gun that I'd made and he had it plugged in and he
and I walked in the room and he's like, "Doc, this thing saved my life and I
know it saved yours so you got to do something about this." [snorts]
And we we talked about this briefly before, but I had a few moments in my
life and I think a lot of I've heard that a lot of founders that
have like similar to what I did, like a product that that I birthed, like you
said, you have these moments where you connect with the universe or something
like it's like a calling and you don't I didn't really I didn't ask for it, but I
had a really amazing experience early before I moved to California and This
him saying that to me brought it full circle. I realized like, "Oh, wow. I
this is what I'm supposed to do." And I remember where I was standing in my
clinic. I remember looking out the door just thinking, "How in the world am I
going to do this?" [snorts] Just feeling the weight of it all like, "Oh, wow.
Where do I start? What do I do?" >> So, it was that was that was late o late
2008. In 2009, I woke up one day and I was
like, I'm just going to call someone. So, I called Makita or I mean um
Kawasaki in Long Beach. I literally I don't know how it's was
long ago. I don't remember if I Googled them or whatever you did back then, but
I looked them up. They had an office in Long Beach. And I called on the phone. I
was like, "Hey, I want to buy." And I was online and I could see there was
they had a jigsaw that was like uh $19.99 or something like that. I'm like,
I want to buy. How many of those can I buy? She's like, well, you have to have
an account. I'm like, great. How do I have an account? She's like, we got to
set up. You have to have a minimum uh you have to have a we have to have a
credit card um security for $2,500 minimum. I didn't have that. At the
time, I was broke still trying to make do my thing as a chiropractor. So, I
called my brother. Hey, can I borrow your card? Yeah, sure. So, I put I
bought 250 jigsaws from Kawasaki and I shipped them to my house. This is
like February, March of 2009. And I started taking them apart. Went to Home
Depot, bought a bolt and some toy, Toy Toys R Us, bought some foam balls,
brought them back, and I just started putting them together. And that's about
the time I started realizing like, wow, people don't know what this is. And then
I started thinking, man, if I could get this right, like this could be really
big. But I didn't know what big meant. >> Yeah. Like I I didn't I thought like big
was like my friends, you know, like I couple hundred bucks a month or
something like and then as it grew I was like, "Wow, I could probably do a couple
grand a month selling these on the side."
>> Oh, yeah. >> And then it slowly started developing
and then as it got out people started asking and by the time I was across the
street from where we are here, I had uh a solid product with good packaging and
I realized like, okay, I have a product. I didn't have a company. I had a product
and I thought, okay, if I I can do this, parallel path it with my chiropractic
stuff, you know, sell it to chiropractors and physical therapists.
But I was selling one a day to chiropractors and physical therapists
because I felt like they understood my language. But then I'd come back here to
Unbreakable Performance across the street. Those guys are buying my trunk
would be empty when I left. I want give me four of those. What? Yeah. I want one
for me and my buddy. And so that was when I started realizing like, oh wow,
this is actually for athletes like they see this the benefit of that. So I I
didn't come out of the gates, you know, with Ronaldo that that was like such a
crazy never ever happened dream. >> Yeah. Um, so that's kind of to answer
your question, it was it was phases and realizing like, oh my gosh, I have
something and really getting the validation of the people around me was
super important, especially an athlete and then a physical therapist or
chiropractor or something like that was all I needed to to go to the next phase.
>> You had that willingness to take that next step though, which even though it
wasn't might not have seemed clear, it's just like you kept thinking like how do
I do this? Like what is that next step? And I think a lot of people lack that.
The the excitement is no different for me than it is for someone else.
>> The excitement was I treated that person, every person that I treated
would say, "Oh my god, this is amazing. Can you do it to my friend? Can you do
that to And that that's when I realized like I have to get that piece out."
>> Yeah. >> You know, the the I can make look cool
and sexy and all that, but people have to know what it does. And that
[clears throat] so that's where that's my mission. That's I still do that.
Jason, you mentioned that one of the things that was important early on was
people validating the idea, but were there people that completely flat out
thought that you were crazy for wanting to take this thing into market? Like
what were some of those conversations like with people that were like, "Dude,
you're out of your mind." >> My dad for one, [laughter]
>> like I'm so glad you said that cuz I think I think part I may have said this
when you and I talked about this because it's such a powerful principle to me
that can be a deterrent, but when my dad looked at me right in my eyes and said,
"You're crazy. What are you doing? like people aren't going to buy this had I
listened to him like and and and I don't see why anyone wouldn't. He's my dad,
you know, he's your dad. But I think that's one of the things that you get
confronted with when you have something big.
>> Yeah. >> You're going to have the people closest
to you doubt you. >> And I think that's a for me, I've
started realizing, oh, that's a piece of the recipe I need. Thank you very much.
I'm going to put that in my bucket and I'm going to go on my way,
>> you know. And I think a lot of people don't have the confidence to do that. I
didn't. Takes courage to to over and over again see your dad and be like,
"Yeah, I'm still selling that drill thing." You know, that's what [laughter]
drill. But what you're talking about right
here, I think, is one of the like most important things and abilities for
somebody to possess, which is when they're told no, especially by somebody
that close to them that knows them that well, that loves them that much, right?
>> It's like a very hard thing to not, you know, want to take their advice in some
cases. Right? Now, obviously there's some instances where it's like, you
know, hey, I love you, but this this thing's going to work, right? But you
have to have that mentality, but I think about the amount of, you know,
businesses or opportunities or ideas that didn't come to life because of the
amount of people that were deterred. And I don't think that that's ever talked
about enough. It's like you have to have that willingness to like be able to have
that much like faith and uh and belief in like what you're doing and what it
can turn out to be, you know? >> Yeah. I I I
>> And to add on to that, I'm sorry, is that I think that the lesson here and
what I think is very important is that oftentimes I think
>> your your parents want what's safest for you, but they don't necessarily know
what's best for you. They want you to be safe. They want that secure job, right?
Because they love you, right? There's a risk with trying to sell the drill
theme, you know, but who knew that the drill theme would have turned into what
it turned into. You know, how do they I think as parents, to your point, they
don't know how to tell that story, you know? So, what's your son doing? Uh,
[laughter] >> you know, I I'll tell you what. I I
can't tell you the amount of times I probably had that conversation with my
mom. >> What's your son doing? [laughter]
>> You know, all all my friends, siblings went to college and then here here you
have me trying to make it with this social media thing where I'm going
around asking strangers how >> you still doing that content thing, you
know. [laughter] >> So, you you got to have a little bit of
delusional, you know, self-belief to make it work.
>> Yeah, you have to. You have to. I I would say I tell people consistency,
persistence, and delusion. >> You have to be crazy.
>> And and I think that's another part of the recipe is people say, "Dude, you're
crazy." Yeah. >> Like I'd have close friends of mine be
like, "Bro, >> it's been six years. Like, are you
you're crazy. You got to give this up." >> But the the only thing back to what I
was saying that kept me going was that. So you initially started off with the
product where you were again selling it to local practices in the area and
whatnot and they wanted to keep buying it from you but when did it kind of
change like did you go seek out a business partner or an early investor in
the company to help you like understand the business of like wait no there
actually is a much bigger upside here. Wow, you just opened Pandora's box,
James. I just realized this is four quadruple here. Jour's >> um Well, I think in this is probably the
best setting. I haven't talked about this a lot, but I actually had three
business partners before I have my current business partner. And going
through each one of those was like a relationship and a breakup and then
having to pay. So I I had and and each person my son and I talk about this
often that they all kind of left their mark. You know, it's kind of like the
rings of a tree. You cut it open, you can kind of see, you know, like my first
business partner came up with the name the guns with a Z. There's no reason why
it makes it doesn't make any sense. It's not worth me telling you the story, but
that's where the name started with the guns with a Z. And then I realized he
long story short but there wasn't wasn't being completely honest with me about
some things and so I had to I bought the company back from him and then I brought
in my brother and another woman who was from who had connections in China. She
had a manufacturing plant in China and to me that was like the perfect thing.
She set me up with the people that would spec out my machine, this drill thing
and get it to where I wanted the specs. And then I found out she was doing the
same thing, being dishonest to me and stuff. So I had to buy the company back
for her, my brother. You know, imagine your brother standing in the doorways
just being like, "You're an idiot. This is never going to work. I can't believe
you're doing this." And he knew this like you know his business, you know, or
any and I'm just like, "What?" And I don't I was crazy, delusional. I looked
at him like, "You're missing the whole boat then. See you." You know, like I
was so confident when he did that. And I think [clears throat]
I'd been through through so much at the time. So now I was just starting to to
build a business with two NFL players and I realized that they didn't have the
capacity to do the things I wanted to do. They didn't have the structure to
scale. They had the money but they didn't have what I needed. And I knew by
that time after eight years of doing this I knew what I needed to scale. So,
I had just a fluke meeting with a guy who knew my business partner and he
said, 'Oh, you need to meet Ben Nazarian. And I said, 'Who's this who is
that? He said, you don't know who he is. You know, his his family owns Qualcomm
and they're a really successful family. And he had an incubator and he had this
guy was running one of his incubator sort of recruiting things. He was always
kind of out popping around. And I met Ben. And the first time I met, I was
supposed to meet him. This is a funny story to tell you,
I have to stop sometimes and think of the audience we're talking to because a
lot of these stories don't people don't care when you're
um I was convinced by everyone around me that I needed to have a pitch deck
and I needed to have a proforma and I need to have all my [ __ ] to Can I swear
on this thing? >> Yeah, absolutely. School of hard knocks.
Yeah, let's go. >> So, I needed to have all my [ __ ]
together to go and sit down across the table from this billionaire.
And because I didn't know business that way, I was listening to everyone around
me. I was paying attention what they were saying. And I was like, "Oh, so, so
he's going to judge me based off of this, this, and this, and this." And so,
I spent, you guys, I'm not joking, months trying to make a deck. I'd never
made a deck. I mean, I've built decks, but I've never made a deck like on
paper. That was a joke. I'd make with a hammer and nails,
>> but I'd never. So, I was really nervous about it. And I found, this is a really
important story, I think, for people that are trying to build their own
thing. It's uncomfortable. It's going to feel weird. And sometimes the voice says
you're right, and you got to just trust that. And um so I went to the to these
two people who were sort of keeping him at bay, sort of being the gatekeepers,
and I said, "Look, if if I don't I need to treat Ben." And they're like, "No,
you can't." I was like, "They're not he's not going to come here."
>> And who's Ben? Just for the >> Benerian is my is my business partner
and my seed investor. And we helped grow the company together and everything.
Yep. Along with my wife. So they said, "He's not going to come to
your practice." So I want to this to set in for a second. This was my what I felt
like was like the mo the whale. Like can you imagine me sitting in the room with
this person who like the resume that this guy had and they're telling you you
can't you have to come this way and then I'm telling [ __ ] you guys. Like that's
I'm not doing that because that's not who I am. and I'll fail that test
because I'll sit in front of him. He'll know authentically that's not who I am
and I'm trying to be someone I'm not. I need to treat him. And they're like,
"Okay, okay." There was just this attitude like, "Okay, you're just going
to screw the whole thing up." And and I want you I I I the important point for
people to realize is I was so convinced. I'd done it so many times. I'd treated
so many celebrities. I'd done the 10,000 hour rule by that time. And I knew that
if I walked in and sat with that guy, I knew there was going to be a good
experience because I'd just keep poking and trying to understand like what
where's your pain? So guys, I call up. He had he's in the Rolex building in
Beverly Hills. I'm from Centerville, Utah. What? So I
call up. Hey, can I have a meeting with Ben Nazerian? Yeah, you can have 15
minutes of this block. Make sure you're here. So I I'm like I
felt like a day early, but I was early. Show up. I walk in a conference room and
it's like the most gorgeous conference room. Glass walls that had the the have
the film that goes over you can write on it and stuff. Walk in, sit down. I set
my table up. This like crusty old table I still have. And he walks in the room
and I immediately was like, "Oh my god." He was like very similar to me in age.
And I felt like he was like a cousin or something. It was really weird. We've
talked about this a lot since then. So I was like, "Hey, how are you doing?" He's
like, "Hey, thanks for being here." He was so nice. Not at all like this, you
know, Wizard of Oz. Everyone made him seem to be. And I was like, "Hey, so I
don't want to take a ton of your time, so I'm going to treat you today." And
and he goes, "Oh, thank God. I love deep tissue massage." What?
>> Yeah. [laughter] >> I could I What? And I was like, "Well,
now we're off to the races." >> Why do you like deep tissue massage?
Yeah. Go ahead. No, I was going to say there's there's three lessons here that
I think you you [snorts] touched on is one, you can't just rely on capital to
scale. You need people who have strategic interests and partnerships
that you can kind of helps help you scale. Two is your friends may want the
best for you, but that doesn't always mean it's what's best for you and you
got to play to your strengths. And then three,
>> amen, >> is whether they're a billionaire or the
janitor, we're all people at the end of the day.
>> We done? That was a mic drop right there.
>> That was great. That's awesome. >> It's a and and the the billionaire one
strikes true cuz I mean you you know our channel obviously we talked to so many
of them and I think the biggest one was this when we went over to the Middle
East and sat down with like a lot of the guys uh over there Exactly. And we're
just talking with them about soccer and just in just just random they were just
one of the boys. >> Yeah. talking talking about chocolate, a
bunch of just random stuff over there and uh you just realize it's just like
man every like they've had a great and impressive career but at the end of the
day like they don't always want to talk about that business stuff and be so
stiff like they just want they're just people at the end of the day.
>> So after that meeting at the Rolex store what kind of came out of that or or you
know I >> Yeah. So, so I treat him and now you
guys can I was like I felt like angels were behind me treating this guy cuz I
was just giving him everything I had and he stood up and he was like that was
amazing and and he sat down on the corner of the
chair of his table and we were just sitting across from each other and he
goes what do you want to do and I said I I want to get this out to as many hands
as fast as possible because I feel like there's someone behind me that's going
to take this and they're going to confuse people to understand what this
is and this is a certain and feeling and he was like literally puts his hand
across the table, shakes my hand and he said, "What are you doing tomorrow?" And
I said, "It's Saturday." It was a Friday we met. Uh, what are you doing tomorrow?
I said, "Uh, whatever you want me to be doing." He said, "Can you be here at
8:00 tomorrow morning?" I said, "Yeah, I'll be here at 8:00." He said, "In this
room." So, we go back to that same room. We sat in there from 8:00 in the morning
on Saturday till 3:00 a.m. on Sunday. [snorts] Didn't leave. Ordered food and
we wrote the whole business plan around that whole wall. He'd ask me questions
and when this time comes and when this happens, what do you want to do and who
are the people and how do we scale this thing from USC and the Raiders, you
know, like if you think about that at the time, you guys, he's looking at me
going, "Okay, we could probably sell like 2,000 of these." I'm like, "No, no,
no. It's bigger than that. I'm a chiropractor. Like, it started with
people with pain. It it's the athletes have it, but like let's stoke that fire
and get it." So, it was it was just a lot of this back and forth in that room.
And that's when we decided that I was going to be the face of this brand. And
I remember fighting back like, I don't people won't care about that. They care
about the gun. They're like, "No, no, you need to they people need to know the
story." >> Yeah. The story at the the accident.
Yeah. >> Yeah. I didn't you know, and at the time
it was you don't it doesn't feel super important. But since I've stepped back,
you we talked about a keynote. Since I've stepped back and been able to kind
of see this whole thing, I'm like, "Oh my gosh, this has been this has been
brewing for years." And I just was kind of like a a pawn in this thing. Like it
was, you know, I don't know how religious you guys are, but I felt like
I was like, >> "Wow, this is I'm a part of something
way bigger than me." >> And all I have to do is just kind of
play my part in this thing, you know, and it happens to be the founder.
>> How uh how bad was your motorcycle accident?
>> It's pretty bad. >> Yeah,
>> it wasn't bad enough. So, I hit a car. Just to be clear, I was splitting
traffic because you can in LA and a delivery truck just tall enough was in
front of me just long enough that I didn't see a car coming from it. It had
missed the exit and so it was kind of veering sharply and it just came out in
front of that delivery truck and I t-boned the side of the car head first,
>> flipped over the car and I landed on the freeway.
I was on the 110 and I landed on the 10. So it was they're really next to each
other, but I was on that freeway and I woke up. So I'd been out for
>> Oh my goodness. >> several minutes.
>> Um Yeah. What did that do to your perspective on life? Because I feel like
anytime whether it's like a radical health event, you know, something like
that, it changes your perspective on life. Like [snorts] I guess how did you
kind of approach differently after the accident?
>> I don't ride motorcycles in California anymore.
>> That's the first thing. Um, I to be honest with you, James, I
think the or to be more clear, I think the that process
was was integrated into my life over a few years because the shock of the
experience stuck with me for a minute >> and I didn't really I didn't see the
significance of it. There was a person in my life at the time that was really
making it a big deal. And I I I remember just thinking like
next like I got to keep going on this mission like I'm I still have stuff to
do and if that's nothing's going to stop me not even that. So that the the pain
didn't set in for two months. So the first few weeks after that I was like I
am unbreakable. like there's no not even a motorcycle accident can hurt me and I
just was plowing forward so I hadn't really thought about it but once the
once the the pain happened and then I started working on the gun um it just my
focus became on that and not until in 2011 probably 2012 did I have like a
physical breakdown I was sitting in my apartment and I had a moment where I
realized like wow that happened to me like I could
have died you know and I didn't never really had focused on that
>> but just the way I hit my total my bike I couldn't ride my bike away from there
and it broke my helmet which is you know pretty hard impact so I I look back on
then I'm like anyone else I think though I just focus on the positive look at
what it did you know >> I didn't die my brother drowned in 2018
was the worst experience of my life he drowned he was swimming I was in a
motorcycle accident. I didn't die. Like I just I don't know. I sometimes just
think it's just the way it is, you know? >> I'm not sure if you deal with any of the
pain from that motorcycle accident today. But I'm curious,
>> would you have rather kept your health and never have created the gun or would
you have kept what happened to you and built what you have today?
>> I wouldn't have changed it. I wouldn't have I I I would keep it the way it is.
>> Why? I feel like one of the things that I've
learned in life is that um the hardest thing and the right thing
are the same thing and and you have to do hard things and
that there's really cool things on the other side of hard things. So I I would
like to believe in that scenario that my instinct would have been to find a
challenge that was monumental anyway just because I feel like that's just
kind of who I am and it just happened to be this.
[clears throat and cough] >> Did you get a chance to I guess mend the
relationship with your brother after the business partnership?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> That's [snorts] good.
>> Yeah. He you know and and Sully the guy you met
>> Yeah. >> Yeah. He you know we had a there was a
moment where he was going to work for the body with his connections as you're
scaling especially when you're bootstrapping things you know people
come by your orbit and you're like oh my it's the perfect person and then they
kind of exit you know and they have so he came in Sullley came in my brother
came in he was there for a while he connected me with the right people I
wouldn't have the at the point without him
>> and then he he's always wanted to be a pilot so he flies billionaire cars
around on a private plane now. >> Yeah.
>> So, he loves his life >> and I'm h I'm so happy for that.
>> That's great. >> And solely the same way. Same thing
happened with him. He's he's kind of slowly orbited. We're we're in the same
locker rooms, but he's there for a different reason than I am. But he just
he ended up finding his own path and it wouldn't be what it is
>> here at the body. You know what I mean? >> Yeah. Right.
>> So, I I I wanna I want to talk about the the body for a second. Obviously
starting with the thera gun and then and ended up becoming the body.
>> Uh we love the concept of vertical integration within a business. Uh and so
obviously you started with the the gun that was that product that's
specifically focused on um obviously [clears throat] pain in specific areas
and things of that nature. Yeah. >> But I know that there's a whole
ecosystem of wellness >> uh within your company. And so how did
you go whether it was with your partners or just how did you strategically think
about integrating more aspects to the company and making it the body beyond
just the the gun? >> Uh
it was a few things just like everything else. It's not just like one or two.
>> Yeah. [clears throat] >> It was the timing of wellness. It was
what was happening in sports. It was we just happened to be at the right place
at the right time. this place across the street is was what I call a high
performance facility >> and there wasn't very many of them at
the time but they were growing NFL guys were coming back and realizing like oh
wow there's some business to be had and that the way the contracts and things
are structured in professional sports you got paid for things outside so it
started developing so it was it was a bunch of things I left the states and
went to open up different countries uh with a distribution with my wife. So,
we're flying around all these places and I'm going from Poland to Russia to
Australia to Scandinavia and I'm going in and out of locker rooms of volleyball
players, handball players, soccer ball, and I'm seeing the same problem.
They have the main modalities, but then the all the other [ __ ] is just like
wherever. This guy has it here and that person has it there. And I'm I I see
patterns and structures and stuff. So, I'd walk in these places and I'm like,
"Wait, you have that over there, but that guy over there had it over here."
And it seemed to work better. So, I just started kind of getting into, "Hey,
where is all your stuff?" Oh, dude, it's everywhere. It's all over the place. And
where do you buy it? All over the So, I'm telling my business partner, Ben,
who's not in the business, but he gets business. Hey, this is what's happening.
And is there an opportunity? He's like, "Oh, I've always wanted to acquire
businesses. I didn't know that was a a a thing he had." So, then I was like, "Oh,
okay. Okay, well then I'm going to start pitching stuff back to him. So, as I'm
traveling around, I'm like, "Hey, these guys had this thing and it looks like
everyone has these different wave rollers." So, we started realizing like,
"Oh, wow. If we if we if we make some Let me think how I can say this. We we
ca I came back and we went to [clears throat] Equinox
and Equinox said, "We love your The gun, but we also need rollers." And I'd seen
the rollers. So I was like, "Wow, these rollers are everywhere. So you probably
should make a roller, but I didn't want to make a roller. We had a thera gun.
Like this is way better. Why would you have a roller?" So it was just it was
all I'm telling you, I'm getting nitty-gritty on these things. There was
that kind of stuff things that happened where I was like,
>> I guess we got to make a roller. >> So we went and made the roller series.
>> Right after making the roller series, COVID hits.
>> We ended up buying the boots. The company that makes the boots,
>> that guy was a friend of mine that I'd see in locker rooms. So he called me one
day he's like dude and then suddenly we realized like okay this can't be the gun
that's weird so we'd have to but we can't lose the equity in the gun and I
think these are things that we that other people need to understand. So this
is a really good question you asked me we pitched this to
[clears throat] uh ad agencies or whoever they are
agencies that were going to help us change our name and these guys were the
best. They' done it for this company and that company. We spent almost 500,000,
oh, a little over $400,000 on agencies to tell us what we should call oursel.
And one day I was sitting with Ben. We were in a meeting and I was going to,
they joked at the time because I I would get really upset and people would say
that he's turning green like Hulk because I'd just be like, "What is
happening?" I would just feel it inside. And I walked out, Ben grabbed me and we
walked outside and he's like, "What do you think?" And I'm like, "This is
horseshit. We got to leave this. they don't not doing it. So we went back, we
came up with a name. We sat in a room and we got people that really cared
about what we were doing. We started talking about what we did and they
didn't know that we were doing these other things. So we got together and we
and Ben basically we it was a joke but it was for real. He locked the sliding
door in that room, ordered pizza and said we're not leaving till we come up
with a name. So that's sort of how we we maintained the equity of the gun because
that by this time it was around the world but we we also opened up the idea
that we could make other things but one of the things we we that always paced us
is our science. I wasn't gonna launch a product. We weren't gonna launch a
product unless it had protocols, validated science, and proof that it
works >> because it can't be we can't have
seven really good products and one crappy one.
>> And that that's also been a challenge that is real for us that people don't
see outside that. >> Yeah. Brand equity is everything. And I
think there's another lesson that you dropped in there that I think is so
subtle. You're not even making >> He's taking notes is is is that Tony Rob
we met with Tony Robbins and he said that what turns someone from being a
good entrepreneur into a great entrepreneur is a good entrepreneur
recognizes patterns but a great entrepreneur creates the next pattern
and what you did is you took the thera gun and you created the thera body. You
opened the suite you noticed you recognized the pattern and opened an
entirely new lane. That's what I think is so impressive. Yeah, it's and it it
Thank you, by the way. And it takes a team. It takes a it takes a group of
people. It wasn't just me that thought of the body. I told you my buddy thought
of the gun. So, it's just >> happens to be my role that I'm in.
>> One of the things that you did that I'm fascinated with uh in particular
learning about entrepreneurs [clears throat] that do this whenever
they have a product business is you began to own the patents for the massage
gun or in particular, I believe it was the triangular kind of aspect. Yeah,
that's the design patent. Yeah. >> Could you tell us, you know, firstly how
important it is for an entrepreneur that's creating a new invention, a
product, how important it is to own the patent? And then maybe also, this is a
this is a three-parter, so I want to kind of dive in in three parts here.
>> The importance of it, >> how do we even go about doing that? And
thirdly, did you have competitors or big companies that tried to develop similar
products to try and compete with you guys or kind of, you know what I mean?
Because you we see that happen often. Like I think about Robert Croak, who's a
great friend of ours. He was the founder of Silly Bands. Silly Bands. You
remember Silly Bands? He's a great friend of ours. He's an awesome dude. Um
when he when Silly Bands was thriving, uh Walmart came out with like competing,
you know, uh rubber bands, you know, just like them. So, were there any
instances of those? So, I know that was a three-part question. I just want to
talk about patents a little bit. >> Yeah. Yeah. Hey, I just thought about
cut this out. Can you make sure my car didn't get towed?
>> Yeah. Also, I brought these if we need them.
>> Okay. >> We're actually do a live demo on the
pod. I'm going to [laughter] lay down on the table.
>> I probably need it. >> I'll do it. Yeah, I should treat you
guys all really quick. It take a minute. >> We should do it while on the pod.
[laughter] >> Like a cut scene.
>> Prime six. Sweet. >> If you want to bring them over, that's
cool. >> I want you [snorts] to introduce it so
it just doesn't spawn. >> 100.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Put Just put them down and Jame James James can pull them out.
>> All good, bro. >> It's honestly probably a good question.
>> That's awesome. >> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Thanks. Also, one last thing while while we're in the break. Could you
Could I borrow that charger? >> I had to grab this from my car.
>> Oh, thanks. You just said that from there. Thank you, babe. Perfect. Okay.
We'll uh um we'll get right back. Well, if you if you want to you want to go
check the car real quick. >> I as soon as he opens and closes, then
I'll uh go right back into it. It's been phenomenal. By the way, you're really
enjoying the conversation. >> I love the storytelling. Your passion is
incredible. Talk about patents. Yeah, that's uh
that's one of those necessary evils to be honest with you. It's it's fun to say
that I'm that I've got a bunch of patents. Um but let me explain. I'll
answer your questions. Patents are important and why they're
important is because you now control uh the story.
Um because other people can only take it so far. But that also costs. It's
expensive to support those patents and validate
them and back them up because people are going to start knocking you off and a
lot of times they don't know they are. They're just innovating doing what
they're doing and then suddenly it crosses over and you're like cease and
desist. Oh crap, we didn't know. Sorry about that. So you you need to have your
patents. But there's a there's a uh a kid that I'm
working with actually at US at UCLA uh that has a program that that I wish I
had at the time because the one of the hardest things is to have access to the
database. And back when I was doing this, there wasn't a website you could
log on and do all the things you could do now. And this kid has an app. So,
what I wish I'd have done is filed a patent earlier because I didn't file
early enough. I wish that I would have understood that that is that is value.
Like having a patent is value because it's the first thing Ben asked me. It's
the first thing anyone else. Do you have a patent on this?
Not yet. Can you help me? I I wish that I would have figured out a way to at
least one of the things so here's a here's a piece of advice. One of the
things that one that one attorney told me and I think you can find this on chat
would know this but is to type it up or write it up, put it in in an envelope
and mail it to yourself so you have something that day or write it in an
email so that you have your idea saved on a date and you can go back and say,
"I actually have it." So when you do have the money to file a patent with an
attorney, he's going to say, "When did you come up with the idea?" "Uh, I don't
remember. I didn't I remember exactly when it was." He pull that email up. it
was, you know, June bubble of, you know, 1902 or whatever. So, those are some
things I wish I would have learned that those are the important pieces of what a
patent is. If you don't have the money to file a patent, just send yourself an
email, be really descriptive, and then you can start poking around. But there's
it's way cheaper now than it was back when I was doing it. When I was doing
it, it was like $12,000 just for the basics. And that was more than I was
making, you know, it was tough. >> Yeah.
>> So, the first question was yes, you need file patent. What was the second one?
The second one was so is the importance of it the process of like actually you
know going through with getting a patent.
>> Yeah. So the the you have to do a search. So the first thing you do is do
a search. They'll search and see if there's anything out there like yours.
They'll send you that information. You have to look through it and see like is
anything in here crossing over close enough to theirs that we have to sort of
you have to file that with the patent. >> At the time was there anything similar
though to what you were doing? Right. >> There was the only things man I keep
forgetting that you're you're in a these are really important questions. So to be
very granular about it, the has three things that makes it work. Frequency,
amplitude, and torque. >> And could we actually we actually I
think [clears throat] have some in here. So if we if we could uh if you want
[snorts] to actually explain that on here.
>> Yeah. First of all, this is one of my favorites. Both of these are awesome.
>> Yeah. >> One of the things was that I wanted to
have is that this balanced on one finger. So a lot of people don't know
that why this is important because as a chiropractor if it doesn't doesn't
balance in my hand then I have to create the balance. So I have to create the
leverage and when you're working on patients over and over again it just I
didn't want that. So I wanted to be able to do is just rest it on someone and now
I'm just it's doing the work. Super cool. Right. So frequency is how many
times it's touching you. This battery might be dead. I think you
being a chiropractor was a big influence in this being a success.
>> 100%. Yeah. 100%. >> You know the science. [clears throat]
>> So the this is this is running at 40 hertz which is 40 beats a second. It's
hard to understand how quick that is. >> Yeah.
>> The amplitude if you look at my finger it's touching my finger.
>> Wow. >> Can you see that?
>> Wow. It's like that's a half an inch. That's
amplitude. Our brains have amplitude when we're thinking or really challenged
on things. Halfpipers that are snowboarding, they have amplitude. They
come in and out of a pipe. So amplitude is not a crazy word. It's just this is
the distance that travels. So I got that and I got frequency and I have torque or
force. What it takes to stop this motor. And it takes quite a bit to stop.
>> Yeah. But the one thing that we wanted is I didn't want when you load that when
you load it on someone you're loading the to lose that science. So the science
is amplitude, frequency, and torque. >> The frequency was where we got stuck.
>> Wow. >> Because our frequency was 40 hertz. And
the patent office had given someone a range, which we thought was insane, of
30 to 120. >> Wow. And we're like, who's making
something that does that much frequency? Their patent was up in uh 2009 or
something like that, which opened up a lot for us at the time. So there's
that's also something to understand is that some people if their patent if they
have a patent but it's not active, it's been inactive for a certain period of
time, you can then file again and pick it back up because if it's not in the
market, if they're not using that patent, then it's kind of free game.
>> Do you have a third question? I don't know if that's the case.
>> Yeah, the other one was uh >> like like were there any, you know, big
companies that try to create? Yes, of course there was. I can't we can't talk
about this without saying this part when in the early days in 2018 19 and 20 you
guys it was crazy Alibaba was pumping out cuz they didn't as long as it looked
like this they didn't know the science. >> Yeah.
>> So there there was stuff at TJ Maxx for 1999 that looked just like Arththeran at
the time. >> So we had to spend a ton of money
>> sports clips. >> Oh I'm I'm going to talk I'm going to
talk about that. But but I I want people to understand why this is so important
and why you saying to control the story story and the narrative around your
product >> cuz like somebody buys that off of a
knockoff website, right? Like not this but like they the fake version, right?
>> And it doesn't have the science and the the actual factors of what you put into
it and they don't have that same experience that your gun gives them.
they just by association might associate that with your your
product. And then now now it's just like this thing that you've worked so hard to
create has this and we see it all the time with media because we'll have
people who will take our content and they'll drum up like their own hard
knocks, you know, like >> fan page, right? And it's just like,
man, like they could post willy-nilly about some other business influencer or
some other content. And I'm like, man, that's not the brand that we want to
rep. That's not how we want to do our brand. But because everybody's seeing
Hard Knocks content, they think it's us. And so it's it's just it's we're very
passionate about that. And so seeing it more on like the like that's our
product. And then so for you, like just hearing it, I want people to know like
how important that is. Protect your ideas. Uh
>> that was going back to the story that I that I sat with Ben when he said, "What
do you want to do?" and I said I want to get it out as fast as possible because
someone's going to screw the story up. That was that it was happening and I
don't those are one of those moments where I was it wasn't my words. It was
almost like the universe was saying like you got to do this or it's going to
happen. So I to when we would shut down back to your question James
some weeks on Amazon 500 resellers. >> Wow.
And what ended up happening, this is one of those things where when
you say resellers, are those people selling [clears throat] your product or
>> No, sorry. They're making having the products made in China.
>> Oh, wow. >> And they're shipping them to themselves
and then they're reselling them. There's a lot of people on Amazon that do that
even right now that are not that take products like ours and go knock it off.
They'll run it for three months and and sell it. It'll look just like
ours, but a little bit for less, whatever. and they'll make their money
and then they drop it and they move on to the next thing. It's a whole market.
It's crazy that I've seen this, but the uh you were talking about the patents.
Oh, we would that's when it became really serious because we saw how many
people out there were knocking us off, but big companies um Samsung made made a
The gun. >> Wow.
>> Yeah. Uh >> what's Samson said do make it a The gun?
>> That's [laughter] what I thought. Uh there's another one. Uh Home Home
HomeMedics. >> Okay.
>> HomeMedics made one. There's a lot of people that made one. I mean, we were we
had people we had manufacturers. They're making the guns. We said, "You can't
copy the gun, but you can you can copy our attachments if you want." And so we
were getting royalties for the attachments
>> from companies because they they didn't realize we had patents on these. So they
would make them. There's one in Israel. I remember they sold so many of these.
Not that one. It's another one we made. And we ended up getting a royalty
because they sold so many of them. >> Wow.
>> Yeah. >> So, the the story I want to share is uh
my dad has terrible back pain. Uh he's had surgery, he's had hernas.
>> Uh and uh I used to get my haircut at Sports Club
like like a long time ago. Uh and so when I'd go in there, they do the
massage and and whatnot. they have their own little like gun or whatever that
they do. And so >> I just thought, you know, uh I didn't
have a lot of money back then. I was in college. And so I was just like, you
know what? I think what would be a good gift for my dad for Christmas is a a a
massage gun. And so I went to Sports Clips and bought him that massage gun
for Christmas from Sports Clips. Okay. It was like 40 bucks.
>> Yeah. >> Okay.
I think he probably used that gun maybe like once or twice to be nice and maybe
he just did it to show. Guess what he has today? He he has a the
gun. >> He went out and bought a like Yeah. He
either my mom or him or somebody got actually got a the gun and my aunt and
uncle I first >> they they were the first ones in our
family who used actually bought a the gun. Um, and so, uh, it was just I just
sat and thought and I was just like, man, like I wish I one back then had the
money to have actually gotten him what I should have got him cuz you actually pay
for the value, right? >> Uh, but it just made me think. It was
just like, man, like that honest to God that Sports Clips little massage gun was
a piece of crap >> and I was just trying to be do a nice
gesture as a young guy from my dad. But like the point I'm trying to make with
the story is like the product is so important and the little nuances that
you put into it to make it what it is. Um just for entrepreneurs out there like
h I mean what did you put into it developing this product? Like when you
think what are some things about product that you think a lot of entrepreneurs
maybe miss? Um because I think like like we get a lot of guys on this this
podcast who are sales, marketing, branding, stuff like that. I think
you're a phenomenal person to ask about product. Like what were
>> what are those things that maybe like entrepreneurs with their company need to
consider when they think about crafting their product, physical or non-physical?
>> Well, I it's a bunch of things. Obviously for me what comes to mind
right away is >> what made us so powerful was we had our
nucleus of an engineer science and and the design the ideas so I could after we
got to a point we had a company and I had guys around me we had what I feel
like is one of the best engineers that for me cuz he got what I would say and
then he'd go home and he'd think about it and they'd call me back and say at
10:00 at night, he'd be just thinking about and he'd be solving this problem.
And so we would find this is what I'm looking for. I want it to do this.
I don't care how it does that, but just make it do that and make it easy.
Excuse me. So, we had a button on the side for a while. So, you push this
button on the side and then this rotated, but it was you'd have to It was
sort of weird. I couldn't do it. So, I told him, could you put it somewhere
else? So he finds somewhere else. I we wouldn't that none of these things would
have happened if it wasn't for the two of us
>> because I could make up all the stuff in the world I wanted, but if he can't put
it to practice and put in a CAD drawing, then it wasn't going to work. So
the the nucleus of that is what really drove a lot of this [clears throat]
innovation is was just something I'm we're always doing it. I mean, when we
made this, I there was nothing better. This won so many awards and this is in
the same category and this is winning awards as well. But there's reasons why
that people like this one versus that one. And it's technology as well. So
product when you're when you're designing products, I think, let me go
back to what you asked me. Be very clear about this. I'm blessed because the
product that I make makes people feel good.
It doesn't drive a car faster. It doesn't tell your time. It's not an or
it doesn't. This thing makes people feel good. So when you ask what I put into
it, I put love in it. Like I every time one someone picks that up, I want them
to feel the same thing that I felt when I first started when it was like, "Oh my
god, this is amazing." And like your dad and that other product that you saw and
stuff, the the science wasn't there. So, it's not interacting with your nervous
system the same way. >> So, that's what I was afraid of. And I'm
going to treat you guys in a second, but you'll know what I'm talking about when
you feel it. It's like you can't unknow that.
>> So, when you ask what I put into it, it was I really cared. I wanted to make
sure that when you're holding on to this that this feels like you got control of
this and this attachment. I wanted it to feel like skin. It needed to feel like
skin because if it didn't, it would have a different effect on the body. So all
of these things I thought of like how soft this one is versus how soft
this one is. The impact of the body and when you use that versus when you use
this one. We had to I had to make all that stuff up. Not uh but I had to
design it all. Figure it all out. So the when you're designing products, I mean,
it's not easy, but you need a team and you have to always, in my opinion, you
have to always be pushing the envelope, always be checking it. I'll finish with
this. We used to have a uh every the first Thursday of the month, we would
sit in our engineer in the room with our engineers and some design teams and
stuff and we'd write ideas that we're working on on the wall and then we'd
spend the next few minutes saying everything was wrong with them. Pricing,
packaging, too big. We'd just rip it apart and then the engineers would take
time solving those problems. Oh wow, they don't like that, but we like this
product. We think it's going to do well. Libida like let's pull it through the
thing see if we can work it out. So we've we've done a lot of different
things over the years as we designed these spaces cuz these things didn't
exist. The attachment didn't exist. So we had to put together what that story
was and the life around that. So it's product I I love it.
>> Like making products is like it's my dream. We we talked about how how brand
equity is everything and you know these the guns have won hundreds of awards
>> but a lot of people probably don't see behind the scenes is that there's
probably a lot of products that don't get launched
>> or products that maybe you had to pull from the shelves because maybe they just
weren't as popular as you thought they were going to be. Could you tell us a
story of one of those products? Well, we have uh
yeah, we have a process. Um and so we've probably got
20 to 30 products that we're always working on. We've got different teams
just checking and making what's the technology on that? And you know, Velcro
was a thing for a while, like finding Velcro that didn't attach lint to it.
And so, think about that, just Velcro. But now there's double stick Velcro, so
you don't have the fuzzy side that gets all dirty and stuff. And it's super
easy, but it doesn't stick to anything but itself. That was one of the things
we had to find. So one day this kid came, he's like, "Look what we found."
And suddenly now we're like, "Oh my god, we could use that on seven of these
other things we're working on." So that pool that we have to we're constantly
working on. As that gets pulled through, we're going to launch uh something for
the neck that we've been working on for two years because the technology wasn't
there. we couldn't the motors were too loud. You put it next to your ears and
it was too noisy. So, um I think to answer your question, we find out early
enough in the process whether or not that product is going to be viable. So,
right now I'm working on let me think of something that I could tell you. Right
now, I'm working on a shoulder device. Typically, I would say it's top secret.
But I want a shoulder device that I can wear that's therapy for my shoulder. Not
posttop, not injury because that's all you have right now are these like I
can't move because I did this and this. But what if I had surgery 20 years ago
and I just want to go out and shoe hoops with my son. I got to throw something on
to warm my shoulder up. >> So those are some of the things that
people think about and you look it up right now. shoulder and low back pain
are like the top two things that keep people from doing living their life the
way they want to live their life. >> So I wasn't to answer your question
about product. I'm kind of mixing this all together. But I when I think about
that I'm not thinking what's the next product I can make.
>> I'm I'm listening to people around me you know like feedback.
>> Yeah. Here's this NFL guy. He's like dude you need to make something for the
shoulder. Really? What do you want to do? And that's such a fun position to be
in because some guys Aaron Rogers knows I make products. He's seen it through
his career. He's an investor in our company. So, he knows, hey, have you
ever thought about making? >> And then six months later, I come back,
hey, what do you think of this? Oh, [ __ ] you actually made
>> you made it. >> That's a fun conversation to have with
athletes because then they really will tell you. They'll say, oh my, dude, if
it could do this and it could do that. Otherwise, you're not getting the the
essence of what they really want. So, that's that those are fun. I'm working
on that. That's taken a while. There are some technologies in both the fabric and
the material and what I want it to do that I keep running into walls.
>> You get it I get it to China, they get it. They're looking at it like it's not
going to work. Okay, then we'll pull it back. Before in the early days when
someone say no. I'd be like next. You know, you're [laughter]
I'm joking. I wouldn't fire them be like you're fired. Okay, who's next? Because
I was just never take no. But now they're just like no. We there's they
would really have good reasons why. Um, and then there's also some things we've
done that we've made that the science doesn't come through. The protocols when
we do a test on it, like we did a test at USC on one and that came back, we're
just like, it's not worth testing. >> We could say this and we could say that
and we actually took it to IMG and had them run it through some testing and it
just didn't do what we wanted it to. We just launched a palm cooling device. You
guys see that? The palm cooling device, >> I think. So,
>> it cools your palms which in in turn cools the blood in your body. And so
it's kind of like the oil in your motor. If it gets too hot, your motor
overheats. And so it's cooling the blood in your body by cooling the palms of
your hands. That was a tough one cuz it was this it was it was it started with
something that we just barely touched on and then it went down the road. So
you're going to get me talking about products.
>> You you uh you know, >> you're gonna [snorts]
>> No, you go. >> You brought up Aaron Rogers and how he's
an investor in the company. I wanted to talk about just how important brand
partnerships have been to Therabody's success like you know your partners are
sponsoring Cristiano Ronaldo who's one of the biggest athletes on the in the
entire planet. Can you tell us like how important that was in terms of moving
the needle and getting these into you know millions of people's hands?
>> Yeah the the in the early days when I was working across the street I was
asking myself if I wanted to get this message to the world what would that
look like? And the reason partnerships were important
to us is it shared our message. So people when Cristiano was with us,
he did amazing things because everyone was paying attention what he did. Um he
would post and it would go nuts. So the the the only reason partnerships were
important to us is to share our message, not our brand. And I think people need
to understand with this it's different. The reason Ronaldo was using it is it
made him better. Like it wasn't making him more money because he didn't need
that. It was making him better. So the way he talked about the product was
really important to us. The way Aaron Rogers talks about our products is
really important to us because it's super authentic. these I when we sponsor
those teams, when we sponsored Red Bull Racing, we weren't giving them better
tires. We weren't giving them better steering wheels or windshields or
anything. We were giving them something for the guy driving the car.
>> And that's a that's a really cool niche to be in. Um, so the we'd have to it was
really also important people need to understand this too. You have to
translate that message because we had Ronaldo. We had to also put money in to
having Ronaldo. like whatever we spent on him, we had to spend that plus some
on advertising and talking about the fact we knew him. Otherwise, it happens
in a vacuum and no one has any idea. So, that's also really important that people
understand media is huge. Uh my son and some buddies of his are starting a
company and I said nowadays you need an agency. You need you need a liazison,
someone on your side that can help you start talking about what this talk how
this looks in the press and the media. You talk about making a brand.
>> My wife was involved with us in with PR in the early days and I don't think it
would have gone the way it did if she wasn't involved because she would sit in
the house and be like, "You're going to you need to get on this interview with
this guy." Like that guy's never worked out in his life. He works he writes for
Outside magazine. What are they going to talk about? And I was wrong. I was 100%
wrong. My wife would just be like, "Can you not be an idiot right now? Get on
the phone and tell the guy your story. You'll know what I'm talking about." So
I started telling the story and I was like, "Oh my god." So I I don't know
where you went with this question, but I think this is really important for
people to understand. Our ad our ads that we ran were talking about our
partnerships and we made our partnerships talk about how this helped
them. Man United, Manchester United, they have a kit man. You guys know what
a kitman is? >> Yeah.
>> Yeah. >> They have a kitman. Kitman hurt his hip.
Well, the kit man comes and finds me one day. I'm upstairs with Ronaldo in a room
playing, talking, and he walks in. Hey, you're the guy that's gonna help my hip.
And I was like, what? I can show you guys a photo. He drops his pants,
sitting there in his underwear, takes a the starts using on his hips, and he
stands up and he walks around the room like he was 10 years younger. And I'm
like, wait a minute, we got to tell this story. Like, this Man United isn't about
Ronaldo. It's about kitman. So, we made a thing, a whole story about how this
guy had a hip thing and now he's using the gun. So that was an expense we did,
but we told the story [snorts] >> about how it's going to make George,
this guy feel. >> So that I think is important people
understand these things don't just happen, you know, cuz we got Ronaldo for
whatever we got him for. >> We had to go to Zurich and shoot a
commercial and we had to make sure that we got all these assets for the next
little while. And you got to drip that stuff out. There's it's really
important. I think non-negotiable. If you're starting a business, start paying
attention to the media. How do they talk about that? And if they're not talking
about it, how can you have them talk about it? So, my wife used to sit with a
media, sit deskside, and teach them what percussive therapy was, how to use it,
what it does for massage. Like, she would teach them the word, literally the
words to use, and then she would give them a link to embed it in their
article. So, when they launched their article, they'd clickbait. people would
click on it and they'd make money. So now we got Hurst making money on their
clicks because they're telling the story the right way and people are like, "Oh
my god, I want to have one of those." So if you got someone that doesn't care and
they just tell a story and they put a thing in alone, if you want this for $50
off, click the link and there's no story in there, it doesn't resonate. I used to
wonder what seeding meant. You guys remember think of how how dumb I was
that I didn't understand literally the word seeding. You're planting a seed and
it will grow. >> Yeah.
>> So, when I first got into this and they're like, "Did you seed that guy?
You seed the guy. I [laughter] gave him there."
>> But it it's th those are really important to understand what seeding is
and it scales. It's not just for an influencer. You know what I mean?
>> Yeah. >> Well, Jason, we'd like to end these
podcasts off with two quick questions for our guest. I'll start and then Jack
will finish us off here. Uh we I always like to ask, you know, and I asked in
our prior interview, but if if we were to die tomorrow and you could leave one
more message with the younger generation, what would that be?
>> H do hard things.
>> Mhm. >> Challenge yourself.
>> Can I can I get a second one out of you? And can I prop it up?
>> Yeah, please. >> In in our interview, there's a famous
Japanese >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What is it?
>> Find your eeky guy. >> What is that?
>> That's super important. Your eeky guy is what your purpose is. And it's it's a
it's how these these things your your what's good for the world,
what you enjoy, what makes money.
And there's another one I always >> what you're good at.
>> What you're good at. >> Y
>> and where those things converge. It takes a while to get that. And you're
gonna let me talk about this for a second. Your eeky guy doesn't happen.
It's not like you just want a hand of gambling. It it comes over time. It
takes you a minute and it takes courage because sometimes you're a really good I don't know name that thing. You're
really good at it, but it just doesn't make money. You're never going to make
money at that. You're never going to make money at that. How many times have
people heard that? Again, I think that's just one of those things. Okay, thank
you. I appreciate that. Watch me. You know,
>> those are my two things. I think do hard things. An eeky guy does include hard
things. >> Yeah.
>> If I could be uh enough to rash enough to say that.
>> And and Jason, for you, how do you want to be remembered?
I want to be remembered by I I want people to feel like they
know themselves better after meeting me. >> That's what I would want.
>> I love that. >> That's awesome.
>> Well, this was an incredible conversation [clears throat] and we
really appreciate you making the time. We know that you got a busy schedule.
You're flying out tomorrow. So, thank you for being here with us today, my
friend. We really appreciate that. For everybody tuned in, be sure to like
and subscribe for amazing content, amazing episodes coming every week with
the most incredible business owners from all over the world on the Hard Knox
podcast. We're going to put the link down in the descriptions to all of
Jason's socials. So that way you guys can check out the great things that he's
doing along with maybe some links down there for them to get some hands on uh
on the gun. So that way they they can check it out and just like you've
changed the lives of many, maybe you can change some of theirs as well. And
lastly, we're going to put the link down in the description to get access to the
number one entrepreneur community in the entire world, the School of Mentors,
where every week we host live calls with the eight, nine, and 10 figureure
entrepreneurs we interview on the School of Hard Knocks. With that being said,
I'll see you in the next video.