This is Fog, an entrepreneur who took a thousand dollars and turned it into a
business that now pays him more than any nine-to-five job ever could. And my name
is Simon Squibb. I've been in business for over 35 years with my most recent
startup being valued over 50 million US dollars. In this episode, Fog is going
to explain the exact steps he took to escape the nine-to-five and start his
dream business. And I'm going to give him the steps he needs to turn this
business into a money-making machine. And feel free to copy this blueprint.
This is valuable no matter what stage you're at in building your dream. Let's
go. Let's help the audience know you've done something amazing. So, tell us the
first step. >> So, I actually moved to Berlin in
Germany for university. And from university, I made a few friends there.
And we always wanted to start a business, but we thought, "Okay, how can
we stand out in what feels like a crowded market?" You know, it feels very
hard to like think of a brand new business idea. And we were actually
massively inspired by two companies, both based in America. One of them is
Liquid Death, which maybe you already know. They do canned water. And the
other brand is Dr. Squatch, and they do like bars of soap, mainly for men. What
they did was, "Okay, we're going to stand out by marketing in a completely
different way to all the other brands do."
>> Now, you can upgrade your shower game with Dr. Squatch natural soap.
I'm talking about natural, nourishing, cold press, hand-cut soap for men.
>> And so, we thought, "Okay, what is a very simple product that everyone knows,
everyone can recognize, whether they're from Africa, whether they're from Asia."
And we landed on toothpicks. Everyone knows toothpicks. It's one of the first
inventions of mankind from back when we were cavemen. But, a toothpick by itself
is quite boring. So, we thought, "Okay, is there any way for us to get flavor
into the toothpicks?" And we found a way to get it on a very similar flavor
intensity. We argue it's actually stronger
than chewing gum. And we also thought that chewing gum has had zero
competition for a hundred years. And so, we thought, "Okay, let's take on chewing
gum and introduce flavored toothpicks." And we just wanted to give it the
coolest marketing. So, we invested all our money at the time, which wasn't a
lot of money. I mean, we were like broke uni students. So, we invested a thousand
dollars each of our personal money, and we started literally making the
toothpicks from our family garage. We would try the prototypes, and we got it
to a point where we were like, "You know, this tastes really good. Like, it
literally freshens our breath." And so, once we had that ready, we were also
thinking a lot about, "Okay, how can we do the branding in a very cool way?
Like, how can we make the product look cool?" Got this like very cool design
where it's like the lips with a toothpick in it. And we just thought it
like looks very unique, very striking. And then it was a matter of, "Okay,
we've got the product ready. Now, we need to kind of do what Liquid
Death and Dr. Squatch did, do some very cool marketing, and actually sell the
product." So, it was all riding on doing organic pieces of content that would
hopefully get millions of views. I'm throwing this flavored toothpick onto a
map and flying wherever it lands, and giving this toothpick to the locals, and
I'm only allowed to leave the country if they like the flavor. And at the
beginning, we spent, I think it was three weeks
just trying lots of different content formats. We would like do street
interviews, like going up to people like in a try kind of funny, cheeky way, "You
trying to hold this wood?" And try and get some funny reactions from like
grandmas on the street. You trying to hold this wood?
Let me try it. Oh, it's very sweet. Everything at the time was flopping
completely. And then again, we kind of thought, "Okay, we need to do something
differently that other brands aren't doing." And it was actually at that time
where we saw KSI had a toothpick in one of his Sidemen videos. We thought, "Ooh,
this could be a crazy opportunity." So, we made a TikTok. We made like this long
video, like a minute long. Hello, KSI. >> Stop, bro. Everyone says your Prime
bottles have great flavor. And everyone says the same about our flavored
toothpicks. So, when I saw you with a toothpick in a Sidemen video, I saw a
perfect opportunity to combine your satisfying Prime flavors with our
succulent piece of wood. >> It went insanely viral. I think it got
three million views in two days. So, we were just blown away. We were like, "Oh
my god, KSI might actually see this." And turns out he did. And then he DM'd
us. He sent us his address. We We sent our toothpicks to him.
And before he'd like even tried them, just from like that video and like two
other videos alone, we already gained like 60,000 followers. We were sold out.
We were like, "Okay, how Oh my god, crap. We need to We need to make more
toothpicks in our garage." Like We were like, "Okay, let's do Let's do some
pre-orders." So, we did some eight-week pre-orders just so we could finance
making more toothpicks on our website. >> Just Just so people don't miss that. You
basically didn't have enough money to buy more product yet. So, you've got
people to pre-order them. Yeah, exactly. Which means people pre pre pre-buy them.
Yeah. For you then to get the money and go make it.
>> And we were like astonished that people were ordering it like with eight weeks
pre-delivery. And then KSI tried the product
and had the most insane reaction. Ooh! Ooh!
Oh, THIS IS KIND OF HARD, YOU KNOW? OH, I NEVER WOULD HAVE THOUGHT of doing
anything like this. And he said he'd love for us to make a Prime flavor.
Like, honestly, we thought like this is the most insane luck to start a business
off, like the most insane platform to leverage off. Just off this momentum,
lots of people ordering the toothpicks. And then at the same time, we were like,
"Okay, this is insane how we've been able to get KSI to try them. Is there
anyone else that we can get to try the toothpicks?" We saw there was a
Macklemore concert in a few days' time. So, we went to a Macklemore concert.
And we thought, "Okay, how can we get Macklemore to try our toothpicks at the
concert?" And we thought, "Ooh, maybe we can make a cardboard sign like his fans
do usually, you know, where they say something on the cardboard sign. And
what if it says, 'Try a flavored toothpick'? Maybe there's a small chance
he'd see it and try it." We held it up for over an hour. And eventually,
he Like, he was like, "Try a flavored toothpick?" He was like, "All right
then." Oh my god, that's a GOOD ASS TOOTHPICK.
I THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO HAVE TO LIE TO YOU. WE THEN POSTED that video. Ended up
being our most viral video at the time. This video got like over 13 million
views. >> So, Macklemore wants our flavored
toothpicks to sponsor his tour. Oh my god, that's a good ass toothpick. Will
you sponsor the tour? So, it's just insane like how many views we were
getting on the product compared like compared to any other
business at the time. We were like, "Oh my god, like this is more views than
like Duolingo's getting." And like Duolingo is like the goat when it comes
to marketing. So, we were like, "This is insane. Like,
let's keep this up." We then made more stuff around the KSI Prime toothpick. We
released it. The sales were insane. We sold out the like Prime flavored
toothpick, which was our mango madness flavor. We sold it out in less than 24
hours. Sad part though was KSI didn't try the Prime flavored
toothpick in the end. >> Just before we go any further, I want my
audience to be able to go buy your product. So, what's your What's your
website address? Uh it's pickum.store. pickum.store. .store is actually a
sponsor for today's podcast. I want to thank them for helping us help dreamers.
One of the easiest ways any brand can stand out today is by owning your name
online. Having a strong domain name, something that instantly shows you're a
real store, makes people take you seriously. A .store domain name
instantly tells people you're open for business. In fact, recently, studies
showed that .store domain names can increase traffic by up to 87% and help
double your ranking on Google. It's good, right? That's amazing. I think I
even heard Mr. Beast talk about it. And he was like, "If you want to sell a
product online, use a .store." If Mr. Beast says it's good, it must be good,
right? If you're building a business and want to stand out online, grab your own
.store domain. And for a limited time, you can get one for just 99 cents using
the code Simon at the link in the description. So, what three things do
you want me to teach you today? So, I'd say the first thing is like hiring,
getting the right people in. To then also kind of links into the second one,
like scaling, like social media. And then the last one is kind of retail, so
like getting into more retail stores. And I think for the audience listening,
I want them to also listen to this because
if you know what you need to do later, it helps you prepare when you start. So,
let's start with hiring as an example of what I mean. So, when you started out,
you had four of you. Yeah. And I'm assuming you picked clear job roles for
each of you. Generally, what you would do. Uh yes. Okay. Bit of hesitation
there, which means you probably need to define that. At the very beginning, what
you want Like, my my my last business before the one I'm running now was a
company called Fluid. And I was in charge of sales and marketing. And my
business partner was in charge of creative and the creative team. And so,
really clear. We worked together for 15 years. We never had an argument once.
And I respected her for what she did, she respected me for what I did. You got
to match the skills of the person and what they love to do with their job
role. And ideally, you don't want to cross over, especially at the beginning.
>> I mean, I think like it's it's a bit different when you start a business as
well, cuz it's like I mean, you kind of have to cover everything.
And it's like you just have to plug certain gaps. It doesn't It Like, in a
way, like it didn't feel like I mean, maybe we did this not in the best way
possible, but like we didn't specify like massively, "Okay, your role is just
this. Yours is just this." I don't know. We would like assign tasks in a way. It
also like evolved over time because again, like you said, like maybe you
play to your strengths or your what you enjoy the most. And that kind of like
you I feel like you learn more about that over time. I think what's important
partly for the audience listening to understand is like
if you don't make it very clear at the beginning when you start,
it can cause you problems down the line unless you get lucky. Cuz when you start
off a business, you can be a generalist. You're doing a bit of content, and that
person's doing a bit of back end, that person's getting the toothpicks
delivered. But eventually, you don't want someone who's a 25% shareholder
delivering toothpicks. Right? Yeah. So, beginning, it makes
sense. But later, you're like, "Okay, you used to deliver the toothpicks. Now,
we've got a delivery company doing that. So, what's your job?" And they say, "You
know what? I'm really good at blog posting. I'm really good at writing
things up." So, write write a book like Simon Squibb's book that's really good
that helps you find your dream. Or, you know, or write you go off and
write blog posts about how to how to get a flavored toothpick if you want one for
your company. Getting specialists in in business is really expensive unless you
learn these hacks. One hack There's two hacks already. One hack is
just ask cuz it's not who you know, it's who you ask. The second way
is once you determine exactly where your gaps are,
you can say, "Right, who's the best in class at that?" Let's say Let's say
again, you want to retail specialist, right? Then you go to the
platforms such as LinkedIn and you find that that specialist and then you
literally have a coffee with them, right? You say, "Look, we're we're
expanding our business, we're hiring. I'd love to talk to you about potential
role and what you do." And one of two things come out from the meeting. One,
you sit with them and you get on with them and you really like them. And most
of the time, if they're good at what they do, they're often really well paid
in their company. So, these people will be on 100, 200, 300,000 pounds a year,
right? Dollars a year at least. Specialists are really well paid. Yeah.
And what I noticed with specialists that entrepreneurs haven't actually figured
out I've figured that out by accident is that if you go to them and say, "We're
building the next big product. This is going to be big bigger than Wrigley's
chewing gum. It's going to be massive. Going to be a billion-dollar company.
Would you like to join us and buy in?" So, you get these people that have
money, that don't own where they work, they're just on salary,
and they know that cannot scale, right? And they have to work long hours forever
to earn that money. Yeah. But if they invest in your business, get equity, and
then they work the business with you, they can scale themselves later. They
don't have to do that job forever. Before you start saying, "I go to retail
and lose all your margin," make sure you've ticked all the boxes on your
social. So, I would literally have a camera
strapped to my head. Today should be live.
All day I'm going live. Right? Your whole day should be live.
Mhm. So that at least your audience can connect to you more and you get more
chance of sales. And then um I think with TikTok Shop and Amazon Shop and all
these things, they all have to be
massively optimized because an impulse buy can also be I'm swiping up. I see
you and I buy it. Impulse has changed. It's not just impulse in the shop.
And I know as you know, you're a young guy. I'm old guy. I have a connection to
the physical world like the stores, but I'm even I'm realizing that my limiting
belief of thinking people only make a purchase at point of purchase is wrong.
What you've got to do is optimize your your online for purchase. I sell more
books on TikTok Shop than I do in Waterstones.
Okay? Waterstones, quite rightly, take a massive margin. Mhm. So, but the impulse
buy now can be this. You're not going live all the time.
It's a missed opportunity and it costs you near nothing to do. And then
optimizing your social. So, when I look at your bio
on your website and look at the bio on your feed,
is it the best way to buy your product instant and I feel some sort of sense of
gratification? Is every video you're putting out saying, "Don't forget you
can buy a product in the link in bio"? Well, then it's also a question of like
I don't know like because it's like this balance between being salesy and being
good for brand. >> Yes. I think you can do both.
Right? So, I can give value in my content and then ask people to buy the
book. Why not? Subtle is key. I'm not I'm not
saying, "Hello, please uh buy buy a toothpick right now, please." But what
you can do, and I would test this if I was you, this is part what I'm talking
about optimizing social, yeah? Is you have a little bit of a limiting belief
system right now. Your limiting belief system is if you over pitch the product,
it'll piss people off. Mhm. Now, the reality is if you make a really great
video and at the end you very subtly in the end frame you say, "Feel free to buy
the buy the products in the link in bio." People aren't going to mind, you
Yeah. But I cuz part of our thought is, "Okay, if we're in all these retail
stores, we don't need to tell people to buy it." But why wouldn't you do both?
I mean, I guess >> as you go into retail, you're you're
you're going to strip away your margin Mhm. and you're going to still have to
push people to that retail store. You Once you're in the retail, they're going
to they're going to ride you. They're going to say, "We're only going to let
you be in this store if we're selling products." So, you're going to have to
make videos telling people to go into a store to buy it. Yeah. Right? Instead of
saying, "You want this video, click this." Every single one of your videos
can have a tag on the bottom of it instantly saying buy the product, right?
Yeah. And I'm not saying
over uh sell all the time. Yeah. I'm saying do your existing content, but
every time before you push the upload button and push button,
is it optimized to potentially get a sale? I'm going to get into retail in a
minute, but I just before we go and do something totally radical we think's
going to save our impulse buy problem, make sure we've created impulse buy
within what we already have. Yeah. Right? And I and I and I watched your
content every day. It's not optimized for what I'm talking about. Are you in
any retail stores now? Yeah. Uh I mean, this year we were lucky enough
to enter um a store called Normal. Right now, you're getting a lot of retail
sales? Uh in retail sales in like really insane. Like we're constantly been
selling out and like um been restocking the toothpicks into the stores and like
it's been insane. >> I think retail is one of those things I
personally have come to hate Mhm. because I've seen how they treat small
businesses and how they push down on margin and then they expect you to do
the marketing to get it into store. I mean, yeah, they they definitely push
hard at margin. I have an idea for you on retail, but you've already got a
working formula on retail. And I've seen some of your social media content around
this, you know, you are promoting outside the store, right? Yeah. And that
helps. So, these but these guys should be paying you for that marketing. I
mean, I guess like Like brand agencies get paid by
supermarkets to do their marketing. >> it's probably a hard hard to convince
them. >> No, they've got They're doing it
already. They're already paying a company to do their social media. Cuz I
think what I was going to say one a couple of retail ideas I've got for you
and you you maybe you could try out of Normal. If you're doing so well for that
product in that store, imagine if you were promoting the store in general and
doing pop-ups and doing fun. They are spending a lot of money on marketing.
Yeah. I mean, 100% but it's kind of like this mutually beneficial thing. Like
obviously we have the product in the store. If we make videos about it, not
only are they benefiting, but we're also benefiting. I'm just trying to make sure
you open up your mind a little bit here, right?
>> These guys would pay you for marketing. Yeah. I think marketing in the future is
an income stream and then product secondary income stream.
So, I make money marketing my book. Yeah. Right? I did a video, 10,000
pounds on my book. That video made about 50,000 pounds profit. Mhm. So, the video
made 50,000 profit and then we had sales. So, I just want your mind to open
up a little bit that I've seen this marketing with this store, Normal. I
think you could pitch into this brand, "Would you like to pay us to do some
marketing?" Mhm. Worst is they say no. Yeah. And they go, "No, no, it's a
mutually beneficial relationship. You've got your product. you." But I think
you'll be shocked how desperate they are for a little bit of your magic. Yeah.
No, that's a good point. >> You can make income from your marketing.
Right? And so with the retailers, I actually think that's an interesting If
you go to the marketing people and not the product people, you might have more
success getting in. Cuz Christmas marketing, let's say, you
can market the out of Tescos or Sainsburys. Mhm.
And more people going in the store to buy your toothpick means more people
going in the store to buy a Christmas pudding. More people to buy Christmas
crackers. Yeah. So, I think you have an opportunity to pitch marketing because
that's what a lot of product owners don't really do very well for the
supermarkets. Just start to connect these things together, right? Marketing
and retail. They're all the same thing. And then finally, and this is the
content side, um what would I do if I was you? You don't have a retailer in
the UK yet. No. And you've got Christmas. Big sales. Mhm. I would do a
fake pop-up shop. Okay. I would go to Carnaby Street with a table
Mhm. I would sell toothpicks. Okay. And I'd
>> have an army of students or or whatever. Every time someone walks out of a shop,
you say, "You want to buy toothpicks as a Christmas present for your niece, your
nephew, your brother, your sister, your smelly boyfriend's breath needs sorting
out, you know, whatever." I I just think that retail is what Yes, you want the
supermarkets to stock your product. Do not stop pushing that.
But I also love the idea that you can kind of build your own like retail shop.
But I think it's just about staying true to what you said earlier about your
original plan. You took a risk, you did crazy stuff, you did crazy stunts. I
just don't think you should change any of that. Yeah. Um I only think you
should get more specialists in. You should be more defined in your job roles
and what you're doing. Mhm. I just think you're going to blow up, continue to
blow up. We're going to launch a dream pick'em
and all the profits are going to fund people's dreams. If you want to join the
waiting list to get this dream pick'em, join the link down below. We'll do a
little waiting list and we'll do a gold one in there, give away some money to
whoever gets the gold one, give some direct one-on-one mentorship from me and
my team if you get the gold one. So, if you want to get one of these toothpicks,
join the waiting list down below. Okay, guys, we're off to have some
chicken-flavored pick'ems. We'll see you later.
See you.
