How much money did you make this last year?
>> The law firm last year we did two billion in fees. Most people stopped. Most people are satiable. And somehow for me it really wasn't about money. It was just about winning.
>> What are some of those things that you have done differently from the 99%.
>> You have to look for luck. You have to look for opportunity. There's all sorts of ways to find luck. The main way to find luck is
>> you went headto-head with some of the biggest companies in the world. Did you ever worry about any of those big companies coming after you? If you feel righteous in what you do, and I do, no, I've taken on the biggest ones.
>> What have you learned about negotiating with these billion-dollar companies in the courtroom?
>> The only thing they understand is money. They're not going to do it because it's right. So, what I've learned is this. Don't bring a knife to a gunfight. Bring a [__] Uzi.
>> John, if me and you died tomorrow and you had one more guiding principle to leave with the younger generation to take with them for the rest of their lives, what would that be?
>> Golden rule.
What's going on everyone and welcome back to the School of Hard Knocks podcast. I'm James and I'm here with Jack and Josh and we have an incredible guest for you guys today. Our great friend, the legend, the billionaire, one of the richest lawyers in the entire world, Mr. John Morgan, the founder of Morgan and Morgan, one of the biggest law firms in the world and the biggest personal injury law firm in North America. you guys. John, it's great to be here with you today.
>> It's good to see you again. I've seen you a lot since I saw you the first time.
>> Well, and I think over 60 million people by now have seen that clip that we did and so it's I think that I can say it for everybody here at the table. A lot of people watching may have seen it, but it's one of our favorite interviews that we've ever done.
>> Thank you.
>> So, I want to get things started by going right back to 2005, right? when you're initially getting ready to start Morgan and Morgan, before you have a thousand attorneys working for you, before you have, you know, recovered tens of billions of dollars for your clients. Uh, for starters, how much money did you make this last year?
>> You mean in 2024?
>> Yes.
I'm not exactly sure because uh some of it was capital gains and some of it was but like I said in that first interview, I looked at what LeBron made and and LeBron would rather be me than him every day.
>> Yeah.
>> So I don't want to give I mean I've watched your clips now and it seems too braggadocious to
>> Yeah.
>> give these numbers.
>> But the law firm though, you guys
>> Oh, the law firm. the law firm. We we do, you know, we do last year we did two billion in fees and our margins are high.
>> Very good. But back to 2005 when I first initially interviewed you, you said something that has stuck with me to this day and it's I'm getting the chance to ask you about it right now. You set out to build the Google of law firms. Can you break down your vision back in 2005 before you built, you know, this company and what it's turned into today? What was your mindset coming into law and building this empire that you've built now?
>> Well, the first thing I did is I had to get rid of partners. And one thing I tell your people is there are visions, there's visionaries and there's vision makers. Between the visionary and the vision maker, there are vision blockers that are stopping you from making the vision. I had two partners who did not want to grow, did not want to, they wanted to hold the money. And so in 2003, the firm was called Morgan, Colin, and Gilbert. And in 2003, I said to both of them, I said, "Look, they wanted me to close Jacksonville. They wanted to close Naples and just kind of keep all the money here in Orlando, Tampa." So I bought them out.
You know, one time I read a thing from Jeff Bezos. Sometimes you need to pay people to go away.
And I've done that many times. Pay people to go away. So I said in 2003 they were wanting to close. I said, "Why don't I just buy you all out?" And one guy said, "Okay, okay, okay, okay." And I bought them both out. They had 27% of the firm. I bought them both out for less than $2 million.
And then that was that. I kept their name on it for a while because they stayed on working.
But in 2005, they came in and said, "We're going to go start our own firm." I said, "Okay." And then from that point forward, I was untethered by the vision blockers.
By the way, Jacksonville makes a fortune. Naples makes a fortune. They wanted to close them. They wanted to close them. And so once I got rid of the partners, the dead weight, it's it's hard to swim enough, but when you put a weights with balls and chains on your ankles, it's really [__] hard to swim. So I cut those two off with chain cutters. And then I started going and getting bigger and bigger and bigger. I didn't have the Google idea in 2005. I think I had the Google idea in 2009. That's when I wrote a speech called uh uh the 21st century law firm. What's it going to be like when there's in the 21st century? And then I started having this vision about the Google law firm. If Google was a law firm, what would it do? The answer was it would be everywhere for everyone. It would be onestop shop for everything. And if I didn't handle the cases, I'd refer it to you and you and you and you. For example, there are certain cases that we don't handle, but we refer it out to people who do and our margins on that is like 85%. And the clients are better because we're giving them to the law firm who really does that type of work that I don't do. And so that was the thought about the the Google law firm and then I started building it in earnest in 2009 and here we are today.
>> You know, it kind of reminds us it reminds me of we've got a great friend of ours. He's an incredible internet marketer. His name's Joshua Crisp and he's got this saying of an acronym WW AD whenever he looks at businesses. What would Apple do? You know, Apple's a trillion dollar company and how are they able to sell their phones or computers at, you know, hundreds or even $1,000 more than their next competitor? Like what are they doing with the packaging and whatnot? What are they doing with the pricing and whatnot? And so, and you took the inspiration from kind of Google. So in in a sense you studied those greats even though they weren't directly in your industry to model that greatness and kind of go out there and build it yourself.
>> Google and Uber because part of my business is referring the cases out like Uber doesn't have cabs. Uber Uber doesn't have drivers. They they have people they send it out to. But the but my Uber version once I get the case and I refer it out instead of having some you know who who knows driving the car I got you know I got rowdy Bush driving my cars I'm giving them to the best lawyers in America. So, if you call me and give a and ask for a case that I don't do or that I'm not in that geographic area, I find my Uber driver, which is one of the premier lawyers in that country or that state, and I get it to that person, and that business is getting bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger, and that's and the margins on that part of the business is astronomical.
John, out of all the lawyers out there, you make a lot of money, but why did you want to become a lawyer?
>> Well, here's what happened. I'm 19 years old. I'm at the University of Florida. My dad calls me. He says, Tim, who was my brother, has been in an accident. He's working at Disney World. He's paralyzed from the neck down. He is a C6C7 quadriplegic. Can move nothing. you know, we're very close. And my other brother Mike was there with me. He was a freshman at Florida UF. I'm a And so we jumped in our car. We drove down the street. We went into the Catholic church. We wrote ca we cried. And then we uh lit candles. That's what Catholics do, I guess. And we then drove home and went to the down the street here to Lucern. And there he was spinning 360 on a gurnie. And it was like, "Holy [__] we our mother had left a long time ago, so there was no mom around and my dad was kind of a, you know, we loved him dearly, but he wasn't." So I kind of took charge of the whole thing and we were doing everything, man. We were we got water from Lurards, you know, where the miracles were with Mary up here. We're rubbing, you know, we're rubbing Lurard's water on his legs and we're praying and praying and praying and I got mixed up in the whole thing. in the in the medical treatment and the case against Disney because it happened at Disney. What happened is the question is was there a third party case? Was it or was it just a workers's comp case? At the end of the day, I believe that we hired the wrong lawyer because we didn't know. We were poor people. We didn't know who [__] it up, I think. And number two, Disney, even though it happened on the job, treated Tim like he was a Taliban. They they would just fought and fought and fought and fought and fought to the point where if it's a comp case, as long as you give somebody a job back, there's not a case. So, they said, "Okay, we'll give you a job back. We'll let you be an operator." He's, remember, he's in high school. We'll let you be an operator from 11 at night till 7 in the morning. 18-year-old quadriplegic. He regained some of his stuff. He became a super quad so he could drive a car. But the way Disney fought him, I became enraged. When we checked him out of the hospital, I walked into the doctor's office and I said, "Uh, what's the prognosis?" And he said, "I don't think he'll make it to 30." I stood up. I said, "You're wrong." And he was. He died last year at 65. But then I couldn't get Disney out of my mind. And I knew what I was going to do. I was going to come back and all these [__] like Disney and insurance companies like Disney and were treating people like that. I was going to I was going to represent the Tims of the world. I didn't even know there was money in it. I didn't care. And and so I had a lot of job offers. I was president of this thing at University of Florida called Florida Blue Key, which was the biggest biggest thing in Florida. All these lawyers are trying to hire me. And uh I said no. I said, "I want to do personal injury." And that's all I did. I only I only applied to personal injury firms, and that's all I've ever done. Listen, I had a case one time against Coca-Cola where I handed them their ass, and they had they tried to hire me. I said, "I'm never going to [__] represent a corporation or insurance company. Never. Never." So, I was uh Tim's terrible day became my career. And then later in life, like I said, Tim became a super quad. and Tim ran my call center uh and built the business with me and at the end of every day Tim would come up with his German Shepherd Sam and I'd be with my brother and that's how I ended every day.
