Financial Literacy Video with Robert Kiyosaki - Live Transcript

Robert Kiyosaki: So you're basically saying there won't be a middle class and if there isn't going to be one you may as well be on the rich end. That's true of society, that's correct absolutely. And what most financial books say to you is live below your means, you know, don't have a cappuccino if you have that opportunity. One of the lessons in the book is go back to school, yes, but also I learned finance on the streets. He learned that at Wharton, right? So it's still possible to learn. Is it always about being rich or doing something in this world that not only doesn't just bring us money, but doing something to give back or making an impact somehow, whether it's a building project or a corporation or something of that sort? But that's why we wrote this book together. We don't really need the money, but we are concerned about the economics of our country.

Interviewer: Robert, how is there no middle class anymore? What do you mean by that and what quantifies and qualifies somebody as being in the middle class?

Robert Kiyosaki: There's many reasons for that. The middle class is not getting ahead of the rich. The rich are increasing, but the tax laws are written against the middle class. So Donald and I, we say we can't change the tax laws right now, but we can change people. So we'd rather teach you how we got rich so that other people can move up rather than move down.

Donald Trump: Somebody just starting out, this whole craze about using your own realtor and going to Staples and finding these kits online and somehow saving yourself some money. You could lose money in the end.

Robert Kiyosaki: Well you could, but if you did that, I would still recommend you get a real estate attorney to check over the transaction. You could probably save a few dollars that way, but it is a legal transaction and you got to be very careful because if it's your primary residence you don't want to be evicted in the middle of the night.

Donald Trump: Look, rich is a state of mind more than anything else. If you feel you're rich and if you're happy and you have a wonderful family, you're rich. And this doesn't just have to do with money. Define it financially, Forbes defines it as a million dollars a year in passive income, whether you work or not. That's a specific definition of it.

Interviewer: Sometimes it's daunting to say I have a credit card with $10,000 on it and it has a 30% rate, so that's going to be the first one I tackle. When I have one with $800 on it at a 5% rate, maybe I just pay that first so I can feel that sense of achievement and progress.

Donald Trump: I agree with David, you know, you should. Interest rates are important, but the way my wife and I did it was we had like 15 line items we had to go through. We took the first one we could pay off the fastest, we hung it on a refrigerator, and when we paid that thing off, we drew a line through it and we kept drawing lines through its side. Go after the interest rate which is good to do. I went after which one can I attack first.

Robert Kiyosaki: Okay, where is all of this going? It seems like it is high political season to sort of target the rich, make them look bad. You're saying that we should be pursuing becoming rich ourselves and not bashing those already are. Do I have that right?

Donald Trump: That's my example. If you think the government's here to help you, I think you're badly mistaken. And I think there's no difference between a Democrat or Republican. They both come from the same bowls of cloth. They look at John Kerry and George Bush, they went to the same school, belong to the same societies. And as you and I know, it's the political action committees that determine which way the votes go. So I really feel for the poor and middle class simply because they have no representation.

Robert Kiyosaki: In the world of business, there are four types of people. E stands for Employee, S stands for small business or specialist, B stands for big business like Bill Gates, and I stands for Investor. Our school systems do a pretty good job of educating us for E. If my poor dad always said to me, son, go to school so you can get a job, that's an employee's mentality. Good benefits, 401k retirement plan, blah blah blah. My mother, on the other hand, I'd say I don't really want a job, and my mother would say you know don't argue with your dad. I don't want a job, I want to be independent. She says why? So the mom, I want to be rich. My mother was a registered nurse, so she said to me, his son, the richest people I know are doctors. So you should go to medical school and become a doctor, a specialist. I said the mom is only one problem. She says what's that? Doctors are smart. I said you have a good point there, you should do that. I was horrible at school.

I'm Robert Kiyosaki, author of Rich Dad Poor Dad. I'm sitting here with my youngest protege, the future, this guy is going to be bigger than Bill Gates or the guys at Google. And this is young John Paul, in Texas. How old are you John Paul? I'm 11 years old. And how old were you when you read Rich Dad Poor Dad? I was about 7. Have you read almost everything so far? Yeah. Have you played my cash flow games? Yes. Now tell the people at home what you've learned so far that's different than what they teach you at school?

John Paul: Well I learnt just about I learnt business skills that I need that you need real life to succeed and to do well in business and investing. I learned all the things that I know about morning, that is my one source. I'm the only source.

Robert Kiyosaki: Oh no, that's a good answer, but there's other people. Well there's a lot of people who want to help, so call the poor. The trouble is they don't know the poor and there's no relationship. You know, I live in Arizona Phoenix and people come from Scottsdale, they're three million dollar mansions, and they're trying to relate to a kid who can't get dental work done or they don't have any food on the table. My idea of working with the Boys and Girls Club is that let those people solve their own problems. I'm not here to solve your problems, you solve your own problems.

Donald Trump: When we met I didn't have any money and without her I would never have completed a lot of my work because she was the strength behind me. I fell back on her many times. I know she didn't marry me for my money. She has her own corporation, her own accounts, she doesn't need me to take care of her. I think that's really the freedom of the whole thing.

Robert Kiyosaki: When I first understood investing and understood how to make my money work for me, one of the greatest gifts is I no longer needed Robert, and he didn't want me to need him. I desperately wanted him, but I didn't need him. And so what happened is the relationship got so much stronger because we got to choose to be together just because we wanted to be together, not because there was any kind of dependency.

Interviewer: Thank you.
