Like everybody's trading what they think
is the same thing, but [music]
everybody's having different results.
The good traders are just skipping the
bad trades. If you haven't done the work
to create a strategy, a big part of a
process is you have to take full
ownership of your trading [music]
with a solid process for that first back
test. That's really the key. [music]
Back testing is a superpower. Back
testing can really challenge some of
your assumptions about the market. A lot
of times it'll just tell you you're flat
out wrong.
>> Welcome to episode six of the Trading
Floor podcast. I'm your host Garrett
Dryen. I'm with the co-host, the famous
Tim Beldin. And of course, we always
have Kurt in the background. So our
guest today, a systematic day trader
since 2005, currently trading 30 plus
proprietary strategies every day. His
name is Dave Mabe, founder of Mabkit,
the number one strategy optimizer and
automation tool for systematic traders.
Host of Line Your Own Pockets podcast,
former CTO of Trade Ideas. He's on a
mission to turn 10,000 hobbyists into
full-time traders doing it for a living.
And this is somebody who has tested
every indicator under the sun on tons of
strategies, which we're going to dive
into today. But look, I've had many
mentors in my career and I continue to
do so. I mean, especially at the firm,
right, between Bella, between Steve
Kayitz, who's been our team leader, both
Tim and I, since the beginning, um,
Lance, I mean, we've we've tal we talked
to a lot of people, but nobody has
helped with our systematic and
automation nearly as much as Dave. He is
our go-to guy to talk to. He's been an
unbelievable mentor for us. And not only
that, but Dave is extremely willing to
share information, which is something I
always appreciate because we've had many
coffee sessions. We've had many Zoom
calls where Tim Tim and I are just
picking his brain. So, that's what we're
going to do today. Um, and Dave, we're
so glad you're here.
>> I'm happy to be here. been excited about
this and yeah, I think this is a
continuation of some of those uh coffee
sessions we've had.
>> We're not going to spend too much time
on the bio, but just to catch people up,
right? Um you started as a discretionary
trader and then one day you said, "I'm
going to stop following other people,
right? I'm going to start building my
own strategies." You transitioned from
swing trading to day trading. You
figured out how to back test where you
quickly found that your back tests were
outperforming your own trading. You
figured out how to automate these
strategies which inevitably increased
your bandwidth, right? One of the
biggest benefits from doing this. And
you developed a full process for
developing these strategies, which we're
going to get into because this is the
part that Tim and I are always picking
your brain about because it's helped us
so much. So, is is all that correct?
>> Yeah, it's definitely correct. There's a
lot of history there over many years. uh
you know as you were talking about the
uh the first back test I did and coming
from just like a discretionary trading I
was I was trading a system but there was
some definitely just some discretion
involved and you know I thought I didn't
do any back testing up until that point.
I sort of talked out of it by some
mentors I had at the time but I was like
you know it seems to make a lot of sense
let me just try it. So, I had low
expectations
and because I thought, you know, hey,
I've been discretionarily trading for a
while. I've got this magic in my head.
You know, it I can't possibly recreate
that in code. But the very first
freaking back test I did was better than
my discretionary training. So, I was
like, "Oh my gosh." So, it's like a
pretty humbling thing to see. But yeah,
I from that point forward I was like,
"Okay, why am I why am I discretionary
trade? Why is there any discretion at
all when I can just create a back test
and do something that's better than
that?" It just didn't make sense to me.
So, yeah, I' I've been systematically
trading ever since then.
>> Would you like to gain the biggest edge
a retail trader can get? All of our
daily and weekly in-house trader
meetings are now available to you. Just
head over to smbtrainingfloor.com
to find out more.
>> To even add Garrett to your intro from
all of those coffee chats and calls that
we've done. We've built out our entire
quant process. We learned everything
we're doing from back testing analysis
from those calls with you Dave where I
remember we would have the call and then
immediately we would get on and be like
how could we build this?
>> Yeah.
>> So everything we've learned you've been
extremely valuable to us. So, I'm
excited to jump in.
>> It's really true. That's not an
overstatement.
>> Not at all.
>> So, Dave,
>> I've I've heard you say a number of
times that
when building a strategy, it doesn't
have to be unique. It doesn't have to be
some esoteric
secret thing that nobody knows about. It
can actually be something that's been
done before. So I want to know what what
has led you to believe this and to kind
of go by this philosophy?
>> Yeah, it's a good question. So some of
the first strategies I started trading,
I remember
like there was a sort of a vibrant
blogosphere way back then, you know,
early 2000s and they shared ideas,
shared trading ideas and there was some
strategies that people that traders sort
of uh coalesed around and I remember
trading some of these strategies and I
would check with some of the other
traders that were trading it and the the
variation between the results was just
wild. Like everybody's trading what they
think is the same thing, but everybody's
having different results. And the answer
or the reason for that is the good
traders are just skipping the bad
trades. They have a system for like
they're looking at all the trades that
come through and they have a better
system for just figuring out ones
they're going to take and ones they're
going to skip. So if everybody's looking
at the same sort of base strategy, the
difference in the results is some
traders are just skipping the right ones
and others are not. Some are taking
those bad trades. So the better your
optimization process, like the less
unique your initial signal has to be. So
if you got a good enough optimization
process and you've got you know we got a
good column library as I'm sure we'll go
into
it really the the signal like the main
part of the strategy is like the almost
the least important part
and so that what that means is it
doesn't really have to be unique. You
could get ideas from anywhere and like
like opening range breakouts,
there's still some edge there. People
look at those and like those those don't
work. But with the right combination, if
you're if you're skipping the right
trades through your optimization
process, you can end up with a subset of
those trades that's profitable. So, the
better you are at that, like the more
strategies you can come up with and and
create for yourself.
>> That's super interesting. I feel like
everyone likes to say those simple
strategies are overdone and like burnt
out. And you're saying, "Yeah, you just
kind of have to make them your own and
it all goes into the process after the
initial strategy."
>> You know, I I hear so many people say
such and such strategy is is gone. you
know, nobody trades that anymore. I've
got a strategy
some of the strategies that I very that
I started trading in 2005. I still trade
those. And you would not like people I
haven't heard people mention the name of
these strategies in so many years.
People have long since thought they
stopped working. But if you've got a
good process, yet you can you can get
rid of the bad trades. Maybe you have
fewer trades that in in the strategy now
than you did way back when, but you can
still modify it to still have some edge
uh with your optimization process. Do
you want to sit in on all of our daily
and weekly in-house trader meetings?
There's no bigger edge retail traders
can get. Visit smbtradingfloor.com
to learn more. So it sounds like the
optimization process is like the magic
to getting to nailing these things.
>> It's definitely the magic and you know
that's what you know a lot of traders
just don't have that process. They think
back testing is this
a thing that is just different than what
it it should be. And that's you know
with the with a with a solid process for
coming up with a strategy for that first
back test. That's really the key. That's
how you're going to that's how you're
going to end up with a strategy that's
actually profitable.
Um, but most traders most most traders
that are back testing are doing it the
wrong way. They're they're they're stuck
in this guess and check loop, I call it.
They they create a back test. It doesn't
quite look good. They make some small
adjustment based on vibes, you know, and
they run another back test and they're
in this loop where they just keep
guessing and checking and they never
really have a process for ending up with
a profitable strategy.
>> I want to dive into that first blanket
back test more. Uh but first, like would
you what would you say for like any new
traders? Is there like a best strategy
to start with uh trying to develop? Do
you have any strategies that you think
Yeah. are the best ones to start with?
>> I I don't really point people to any
specific strategy and you know some
people come to me and ask hey can you
just give me your best five strategies
just the you know just the best five.
I'm like, well, right. So, the reason I
don't give them that, it's not like I'm
selfish, but
you know, if you haven't done the work
to create a strategy, you don't really
know
what's you you can't really have true
confidence in it. So, it's there's just
going to come a point where the strategy
has a draw down and you're not going to
be able to have the confidence to trade
through it because you why would you?
you you you have you know nothing really
about it. So a big part of my process is
you have to take full ownership of your
trading and
that means not looking over somebody
else's shoulder. Um doing it for you
know coming up with your own ideas with
collaboration with other traders. you
know, look for other ideas on um that
you see people talking about, but you
really have to make it your own to be
successful and ha and have a robust uh
trading career that's going to last.
>> That makes sense. Someone gives me a
Lamborghini and it breaks down, I'm
going to have no idea how to fix it.
[laughter] It needs to be your own.
>> Yeah. I want to I want to dive into this
process for sure and pick your brain. I
mean hopefully we can get everything out
of you short of your social security
number um with that but uh but first
like h how do you how do you come up
with ideas? So like do you usually have
like like an oh moment where you're
like this is this needs to be tested or
are you just constantly kind of without
excitement throwing stuff at the wall to
see like what your data says? Well,
I I'm putting myself in a position to
notice the unusual stuff that in the
market. So, you know, it it's
you have to
you have to have a routine for looking
at the market, looking at what has been
moving that day and what's unusual about
it. And you know, this process usually
kind of steamrolls where
new traders, they're kind of starving
for ideas,
but once you start, you know, once you
get an idea, once you get something
that's working
and and maybe you get idea number two,
all of a sudden you have too many ideas.
Like at some point during that process,
it's not that you're starving for ideas.
You have the opposite problem, which is
actually a bigger problem. Like figuring
out what to work on, but
you really need to put yourself in a
position every day to notice the unusual
things in the market because the unusual
things, those are the things that you
could potentially create a strategy out
of. So,
you know, at the end of the day, I'll
look at certainly all the trades that my
strategies traded and I will have looked
at those throughout the day and maybe
something about them I noticed that I
thought, okay, well, I I haven't noticed
that before. Do do I have something
about that captured in my back test that
I can see, okay, how often does that
happen? Um, sometimes it's the losing
trades where I think, okay, here's some
unique situation. Maybe I could trade
these the opposite way. Like, is there
some subset that I can use and just
trade the opposite direction? So, I've
got this sort of laundry list that I
have in my mind and, you know, in to-do
lists and such where I'm keeping track
of the ideas that I want to work on. And
a lot of them just come from ideas I've
already had or or strategies that I'm
already trading
um or, you know, tangential ideas to the
strategies I'm trading. Like I might I
might see
uh trades that
almost met my criteria criteria for a
strategy but didn't quite I I have a
process for looking at that because
usually there's a lot of edge
potentially there like if you think
about the the edges of your strategy are
somewhat arbitrary like you sort of come
up with an arbitrary uh threshold like
just beyond that or just above it um
there could be potential profitable
trades there. So, so those are that's
good a good place to look for, you know,
new edges that you could create new
strategies from.
>> Yeah. Could you give an example of that?
Um where because I think I know what you
mean, but I'm not quite sure. You're
you're trading a strategy and you might
be cutting out certain trades.
>> Yeah. And you're saying that beyond that
point where you're cutting them out, you
might have trades like in the other
direction because they're bad trades for
this strategy. Is that Yeah.
>> Is that kind of what you're getting at?
>> Yeah. So So let me give you a concrete
example.
One of the first strategies I traded was
a gap strategy. So was looking for
gapping stocks above a certain gap
percent. And then I would look for a
pattern in the first half hour of the
day. and basically in a tight range and
then on a break of that range I would go
long. So something gapping up look for a
tightening range I would go long with a
stop below the that range. So
what I noticed is sometimes those trades
worked well. Sometimes they worked
poorly and got stopped out. Some of them
they worked horribly like they would I
would get in and they would I would get
stopped out and the stop and the stock
would just tank, right? And I got to
thinking, okay, well, I wonder I wonder
if there's some way I could just trade
the opposite direction for some of
these. So, like I'm some of them weren't
making my threshold, so I wouldn't, you
know, they weren't in a strategy I was
trading at all, but that but I but I was
watching them, so I could see that they
were doing it looked like there might be
some edge the other direction. So I was,
okay, well, let me create a strategy
that does literally the opposite of what
I was doing and let me see if there's
edge there. Like, can I create something
where there's edge there? So, these are
trades that were, you know, the strategy
was working, but I was I thought, okay,
uh, there's a lot that I'm just
completely ignoring. Can I create a
strategy that's is completely additive
to what I'm doing? It's a completely new
strategy that's completely isolated from
and independent from the one I'm uh
already trading. So I wouldn't get like
trades where I'm long and short in the
same symbol. So I I I did that and
created another strategy completely
separate from that. So now I have two
strategies really based on the same
idea.
That's one of the things that I like
about automated trading because it might
be not in your nature to fade a breakout
and short it discretionarily, right?
like it just might not fit your
personality, but you can kind of go into
the data and then check it out and see
that it's a good strategy, automate it,
and it doesn't really have to as long as
you understand it. Um, and it has edge
like it doesn't have to like fit your,
you know, mood for how you usually trade
during the day. Would you agree with
that?
>> I agree with that. I mean a lot of times
what you'll see is
you you know back testing can really
challenge some of your assumptions about
the market and I mean you
a lot of times it'll just tell you
you're flat out wrong your intuition is
flat out wrong for and for that reason I
think back testing is a superpower like
you see all this uh you know uh gurus
out on the internet saying things that
you know these
truisms about the market, but you know,
you don't have to rely on what
somebody's saying. You can actually go
back test and see for yourself. And a
lot of what you a lot of the stuff you
hear out there is just complete garbage.
And if you've got a good process for
testing that, it's it is it's like a
superpower.
>> I find it so interesting. So, when
you're saying like you're putting
yourself in the position, what you're
really doing is a ton of review work
looking at every trade you're taking,
looking at why it won, why it didn't
win, and then what I even find more
interesting because I've noticed with
Garrett and I, you're seeing the ones
where you're like, "Oh, I thought my
model would have taken Tesla today, but
it didn't. Why didn't it?" And then it's
like maybe you were missing one of the
columns that we'll talk about, one
indicator was missing. But yeah, do you
find a lot of times that during the day
or when you're reviewing at the end of
the day, you're like, "Oh, I thought I
would have been in X, Y, and Z."
>> Totally. Yeah, that that's a a really
good thing to be looking at. And yeah,
it's I've got a really that's a very
common thing to to need to be able to do
like go and be curious about that. and
you'll like there'll be some rule that
you have in your system that prevented
it, but then you you you
may brainstorm some way to be able to
include that because you know like maybe
Tesla today really was in the spirit of
the strategy and what your strategy is
trying to do and it might be worth
trying to figure out a way to modify
your strategy so that Tesla's in there.
So, yeah, I think that's a great way to
I think that's a great way to, you know,
uh, brainstorm and improve the edges you
have and potentially create new ones.
>> I'm glad to hear that because that's my
intuition. Like, that's what I would
want to be doing. Like, okay, can we
modify? But when I'm doing that, I'm
like, is this wrong? Like, they they say
you shouldn't be like fitting it to one
trade, you know? I'm I'm not being a
good quant right now. I'm trying to I'm
trying to make my strategy catch this
trade that I liked and you know maybe
that maybe there's no data to back it
up, right? There's it's easy to
overthink that stuff. Um and be kind of
afraid, right?
>> I think you know you hear the word, you
know, curve fitting thrown around a lot
among systematic traders and I think
people are way too afraid of it. I think
people should uh traders should really
it's not hard to avoid
and the biggest thing you can do is with
your back test start with a large number
of trades you're going to avoid a lot of
issues with curve fitting if you if you
start from that point and uh yeah I
think there's you know I see so many
traders are kind of frozen due to fear
fear of curve fitting. And I just think
that
I think you should traders should be
more willing to make changes to their
strategy. And if you've got a good
system, a good process of re reviewing,
you're not going to you're not going to
be ruined by curve fitting and you're
going to probably learn something by
making those changes to your strategy.
Anyway, here's a mindbending stat for
you. SMB traders have 20x to 40x higher
odds of success than independent
traders. Find out why and how to greatly
increase your odds by visiting
smbtradingfloor.com.
>> All right, so this is a great segue
because so recently you were on you
joined me on Bionic Trader um inside
Access on Tuesday. In fact, you're
you're doing it every month at this
point which has just been a blast for
all of us. Um, and I heard you say the
last time that you were with us that
you're probably back testing wrong,
which I think I just heard you say that
a few minutes ago as well. When back
testing an idea, the first back test
should not be aiming for the final
answer. The first back test should cast
a wide net. So, what what do you mean by
that? And why is this so important? Most
traders are like, like I said, shooting
for the final answer with that first
back test. And what you're going to what
you're going to end up with is something
that doesn't have as many trades as it
could. And the trades aren't going to be
as profitable as they could be. And the
reason for that is you're by shooting
for that final answer, you're sort of
you're sort of adding your discretion,
you're adding some of your assumptions
in there.
And that's not really the right way to
do it. So, let's go back to my gap
strategy that I mentioned earlier.
Gapping stocks up. I'm going long.
You know, in my mind, I had an idea
about what the optimal threshold for the
gap percent would be. But so, the first
back test or two I did, I was just like
shooting for that exact number. Let's
say it was 5%.
But then I thought, okay,
maybe I should be using a much lower
threshold. And that's what traders
should do. Use a much lower threshold
for that gap percent. So let's just say
I let's say I assume it's going to be
5%. I may do a back test on like 3%
which is going to have a way a lot more
trades in there. And that allows me to
use optimization to figure out exactly
what point makes sense for me to to use
for that gap percent threshold. So it's
it's just a much better way to
end up with, you know, there's a lot of
trades between 3% and 5% for the gap
percent that are profitable. And it
allows you to see that and and include
those in your strategy. So you may end
up I I've worked with traders where
I I've I've created like five times the
number of trades for in a strategy for
them just based on doing this. So it it
can be pretty dramatic and it almost
allows you to back test more more with a
more open mind than most traders do. And
I think that's very that's helpful and
that helps you end up with actually
profitable strategies
>> and you get more data, more trades.
That's always better for optimization.
So when you're saying the first blanket
back test, you're casting a wide net,
you're lowering it to 3%. What else is
in that back test?
>> Like are you just buying on open and
that's the only one indicator that you
have in that first back test?
So
well with the with this particular
strategy it trades it's looking for that
gap and then it's looking for a pattern
after the g after the open. So it's not
buying on open but the the concept is
essentially the same. So, so not only do
I add gap percent, but I add a whole
bunch of other columns to the back test
that may or may not be predictive.
And that's really the power of
optimization because you're create you
create this column library of indicators
that you include with every back test.
And that allows you to for your tools to
tell you what's important rather than
you having to try to guess. I I mean
I've been I know my discretion for
guessing for these things is so bad.
Like I have to have tools that that tell
me and then I can decide okay does that
make sense or not not make sense. But
yeah, it's it's just way easier to do to
do it that way.
and the tools that just show you clear
as day too that this is significant.
>> Yeah. And that's really how you learn
and that's that's how you're going to
come up with a better strategy tomorrow
because your tools are te essentially
teaching you
what makes your strategy work, what
makes it more profitable, what makes it
bad. And you any of those ideas that
your tool's telling you can be fed into
other ideas to create new strategies
from.
>> Is there such thing as too wide of a
net? Because I know like we've been in
the position before where we're testing
a strategy and you know we're going for
that concept, right? Like let's get a
lot of trades in this back test. Let's
not pin it down too much and look at our
indicators as you say the columns and
the back test and see what's working.
and then we look at all the trades it's
taking and then kind of realize that
it's not really taking a specific enough
trade for us to feel like any of this is
relevant. So is that is there can you go
too far?
>> You definitely could go too far. It's a
bit of an art.
Um and I do see traders when they hear
this that they do go a little bit too
far. So, so they're and you end up with
trades that for symbols that just don't
trade very often and you know you look
at a chart and it looks sort of normal
but when you zoom in and see like it
only trades once a day or something. So
yeah, I think so what I I apply what I
call universe filters.
So they're different than what I think
of as predictive filters that are
actually creating the edge for the
strategy where these universe filters
are basically like fencing in the
universe that I want to trade. And yeah,
you can that is some there's there's a
bit of an art to it. um the the better
starting point you have like the better
the edge is for the starting point the
better it is the better it is where
you're going to end up. So yeah, I think
there is a a bit of an art to it and um
yeah, you could certainly do too many.
Um, so I think it's a like it's
something you're going to have to play
with and uh uh I don't think there's a
real cut and dry answer, but yeah, you
can certainly take it too far.
>> I know which model Garrett's talking
about, too.
>> Yeah, of course you did. It was a
headache for my [laughter]
like what are we doing? We got to we got
to end this.
>> You look at the CSV and they're all just
completely different trades.
>> Yeah. [laughter] Like why is this not
working? And it was clear when we looked
at the trades like
>> the other thing. Yeah. And then you know
all your back tests are taking way too
long because you have this whole glut of
of trades that have to be produced by
the engine. So
>> yeah, there's a there's a sweet spot in
there and it's it's it's pretty, you
know, it's probably different for most
strategies, but yeah, there's a a sweet
spot. It's sort of a uh
uh like I said there's it's not a
science. It's mostly an art for that
starting point.
>> So when you say universe filters, do you
mean like for example like we have some
stuff that we like to throw at these
strategies that have to do with the ATR
of the stock and the average volume? And
we even combine these things like ATR
squared divided by price and you know to
get a certain type of stock that we're
trading right like and to narrow the
universe down by like what we would call
like a static feature something that
doesn't change throughout the day but
just describes like the type of names
that we want to be in the back test. Is
that what you mean by universe filter?
>> Yeah. A like uh average volume is a
common one. Um yeah, it's just going to
it's just like a floor that below which
you know you don't want to trade any of
those names. Um and that you know it can
be low volume stuff that's a really
common one but it can be other stuff too
maybe related to the strategy itself but
uh yeah it's just basically okay well I
know that I don't want to trade these
like for like in my gapping model like
at at some point the gap just is is
completely meaningless like 1% would not
be a good threshold like it like
something 3% was was the rough number
that I came up with just because I know
that you know lower than that it just
doesn't make sense.
>> I wanted to ask the group here. So I've
been working on this model and it's I'm
going about it a very different way than
Garrett and I have gone about it and
then also different than how we learn
from you. But basically it's a very
specific signal. um it's lowflat stocks
um lowpriced that do a crazy amount of
volume in the pre-market and then you
see that burst in volume. So it's very
specific and I'm more going about it
just creating the strong signal versus
casting a wide net. And yeah, I wanted
to like ask really do you ever just kind
of have the strong signal and you're
kind of throwing a dart and you're like
does it stick? Yeah, I think
certainly the strength of the signal is
important. It's not the most important
thing, but yeah, if you I think a lot of
discretionary traders like y'all,
you know,
you know how to come up with strong
signals where a lot of new newer
traders, they don't have that ability
yet. They're just they're just now
developing that ability. And that de
that ability will come over time as they
get more experience. But kind of the big
advantage that discretionary traders
like y'all have is you can you know the
strong signals because you're trading
them or you're trading around them or
you kind of know what they are. And the
stronger this the signal you have the
the easier it's going to be to come up
with a good uh system to trade. Um,
but still you still the concept is still
the same. Like you've got the strength
of the signal. Maybe add some columns to
describe the strength specifically
and then
uh you know challenge your belief about
what that how what strength really is
for that signal. um create a back test
with, you know, a way weaker signal but
the same sort of concept and then see
what that looks like.
>> Um
>> I I love that idea. I I haven't done
that yet. So wait, I want you to expand
on that because this is going to help
me. So you're thinking have the model
that I'm building has the strong signal
and then purposefully make a quote
unquote weak signal that I don't think
would work and see how that compares.
You probably find that it's is it's
pretty different than your the your
strong signals. And it's it's a useful
exercise because, you know, it may
challenge what you think about the
strength of your signal to begin with
and it may point you to other ideas like
like what about the opposite of the idea
like like think about that. I'm assuming
that there's some direction or movement
involved, not just volume out of
nowhere, right?
>> Yeah, it would be the opposite side
would be a weak volume signal to fade.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm looking at join trend on a
strong volume signal.
>> Yeah. So, I would look at
um
Yeah. I would look at just the movement,
maybe taking volume out of the equation
and see like what volume is the right
one to use perhaps. Um,
and I would look at look at movement the
opposite direction and what does that
look like? So, if it's a short strategy,
what would a long strategy look like?
You know, a lot of times you have a lot
of times there's the obvious side
like a lot of a lot of pre-market
strategies are looking to fade big up
moves. So, there's they're shorting
stocks. Um, one of the things I like to
tell people is or challenge people to do
is let's say your life depended on
trading at the opposite direction that
you're that you think, right? That'd be
hard, but let's say your life depended
on it. What would you do? Like, and if
you think about it that way, like, okay,
I have to create something long in the
pre-market. How how would I do it? Like,
what would I look at? What what things
would I need to see? Like, what are the
worst
short trades? What do those look like?
And can I go long? Can I figure out a
way to go long those? And by doing that,
you're
you you'll learn not only I mean it's
it's good to look at the worst trades in
your short strategy and and most people
just you know skip those which you
should be but it's also good to the more
you learn about what's bad with that
short strategy the more you're come
closer to a potential long strategy
taking the ones that are really bad from
the short strategy. So, it's a process
of
like it's not just making one strategy
better, but by learning stuff about that
strategy, you're really coming up with
potentially multiple strategies.
>> These thought experiments are awesome.
So, what if I'm hearing you correctly,
next time I'm coding, just pretend
there's a gun to my head.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think that would uh that's
going to be surprisingly motivating.
>> Don't you do that anyway, Tim?
>> Yeah, basically. [laughter]
type of way. No, that's really
interesting though, Dave. Like all the
questions that you're asking yourself
throughout.
>> Yeah, I think there's
uh you know, I I've over the years I've
I've just given myself plenty of rope.
You know, I I've never really had a
deadline for myself. Okay, I I need to
make it work by this time. I I've just
always
put myself in a position to be curious
about what I'm trading and give myself
plenty of rope. I think I think optimism
is super helpful. My wife sometimes says
she calls me too polyiana sometimes
about stuff, but I think you you have to
have optimism to be a good trader. I
think like you have to always be
optimistic.
>> I'm a big glass half full guy.
[laughter]
I've gotten made fun of for it.
>> Even with a gun to your head.
>> Exactly.
>> Well, Dave, I want to I want to really
get into how how we do this, right? So,
you've you've mentioned a number of
times the columns and the back test,
right? And we're talking about casting a
wide net. So, you know, putting forth a
back test that has a lot of trades that
we know are is not going to be the
strategy in the end, right? And a lot of
times, I mean, Tim and I run this, you
know, initial back test and it's, you
know, the P&L curve is straight down.
That doesn't phase us because we know
that somewhere in there are probably our
winning trades and we just need to go
find them, right? And we find them by
using what you call the columns in the
back test. So, if this is so important,
what are the columns in the back test?
Like, what do you mean by that? And and
what are we doing with those?
>> Yeah. So
I I thought of this coming from a
software development perspective. So you
know I was a CTO at Trade Ideas. I've
done tons of development. It's it's a
big part of what I do. And the more you
know when you write code
uh to be really effective you need to
write libraries. So shared libraries
that other, you know, several projects
can use. So, so you're not, you know,
when you create a new project, a new
software project, you're not just
copying a bunch of code and just using
it over and over. You're you set up a
library for yourself so that you're
using the same library and that's shared
across all the software projects. So if
you if there's a bug in the library,
you can change it in this one place and
then all the projects that are using the
library are updated and and made better
all at once. You didn't have to go make
a change in every single software
package. And the same is I I treat my
back test in the same way. So I had this
column library that just sort of evolved
from that very first back test of the
gapping strategy. I I just the the first
time I just brainstorm for different
columns that I thought or indicators
that I thought might be predictive.
And then when I went on to strategy two,
three, four, I just kept using that same
set of columns and adding to it. And
what I realized is
the column library is like everything
about what makes the strategy great.
Like the better your columns are, the
more likely you're going to end up with
a profitable strategy and the more
powerful it is. So over time, you've got
this growing
uh set of columns that have varying
levels of importance in different
situations.
And the bigger it is, the the the easier
it is to come up with edge in the
future. And a lot of times when you work
on strategy, you know, four, five or six
and you find something that's predictive
there just by just just observing the
trades and realizing, okay, well, this
this concept isn't captured in my column
library. like like for example
um yesterday's range for a stock has a
pretty strong predictive value on in a
lot of situations for today's trades.
and putting that in your library
as a like a standard column, all of a
sudden you got
another way to potentially weed out some
bad trades and and and create more
profit for your strategy. So, the better
your column library is, the better
you're going to be as a trader. And and
when you when you find something that
you brainstorm for strategy five or six,
find something that works there, all of
a sudden it might make sense to go back
for to strategies one through five and
see if it has an effect there. And it
very a lot of times you'll find that it
does. So there's it's you're creating
for yourself this just this constant
improvement loop that just gets better
and better and better over time. And the
same way that software library makes you
better as a developer because you're
essentially leveraging your your coding
by doing that. The same can be true when
you take this approach with back
testing. Your back testing gets better
just is leveraged and gets better and
better and better over time as you get
more experience and figure out what is
more predictive in your strategies.
>> So you've been building your library
since 2005. How many columns do you have
now? How many?
>> I've got probably 250,
300, somewhere in there.
>> That's awesome.
>> I work with some traders, you know, to
develop this type of process. And some
of them have even more. I've got there's
one guy, I think he's got over 400.
So, it's I I could totally see doing
more. And if you've got if you've got a
good process that for your tools that
are telling you what's important, like
there's no reason not to include more of
those in your library.
>> Yeah, we've been noticing that too.
>> Yeah. And this is my favorite part of
testing these strategies because I like
sometimes you can get a little bit
creative because right because you're
you're talking about indicators, right?
Like that's what these columns are,
right? And it's not just RSI and MACD
and what some people assume, you know,
all indicators are, but like you
mentioned like yesterday's range. And
when you start to think about a
strategy, you're thinking not indicator
first. You're thinking what's what is
this strategy? Like what am I seeing in
the market, right? And you might start
to think, well, this X, Y, and Z seem to
kind of happen.
>> I wonder if I could measure that in some
way.
>> Yeah. um and maybe I'll come up with a
way to measure that and then that
becomes a column and now you're kind of
inventing indicators. And this is
basically what we do in the bionic
trader meetings is we go over yeah
>> all these different ways to measure
these market dynamics so that we can a
test our strategies b maybe turn them
into alerts or filters you know if they
end up being
>> pretty good. So, I want to ask you, if
you were on a desert island
and you could only have three indicators
to build the rest of your strategies
forever.
>> Okay.
>> Which three indicators would you choose?
>> Wow, that's a really tough question.
>> That's fun.
Um,
my instinct is ATR is going to be up
there because
I'm often sizing positions based on ATR.
Um, maybe placing a stop based on ATR
and flat out filtering based on ATR. So,
that's definitely going to be one of
them.
um
probably arvall which you know relative
volume so the the volume the stock has
done today compared to average
that's just going to tell you so much
about what the what the stock is doing
it's hard to imagine not using that in a
strategy somehow
um
the third one that's going to be tough
I'll have to think about it. I would say
probably
probably something like position in
range.
That's something I use across different
time frames like yesterday, you know,
what's the position in yesterday's
range? What's the position in today's
range? What's the position in the last
10day range? Like so that general
concept I think is is apply you can
apply it in a lot of different time
frames and situations. So that those are
those are the ones that come to mind
first.
>> I like it. And position and range. Are
you doing percentile or are you looking
at like ATRs from the yesterday's high,
yesterday's low or just percentiles? I
was thinking of just percentile but yeah
like distance from those things and ATR
like the what the thresholds you said
distance from open today in terms of ATR
is really good. I mean all these these
are all really good ideas that you'll
that you'll find popping up in your
optimization process if you uh you know
if you include them. Have you heard this
study of tens of millions of traders
which shows that only 1% of retail
traders actually make it? Don't be a
statistic. Visit smbtradingfloor.com
to greatly increase your odds. Could you
give an example of of how um one of
these indicators like like let's just
pick the position in range
like how how would that come into play
in a strategy in terms of you know not
only it showing edge in the data or or
providing edge for your strategy but
also making sense to you as a trader.
>> Okay. So go back to my original gap
strategy. So gapping stocks up looking
for a pattern in the first 30 minutes.
So there's a it's got a range
and if you're looking at the position in
that r today's range
values close to 100 mean it's it's close
to today's high
and values close to zero mean it's close
to today's low when the when the the
signal happens. Well, those are very
different situations, right? So,
you you might want to look at that to
see [clears throat]
I mean they're so different that surely
when you look in aggregate there's going
to be different edges there. Like the
ones that are close to the top I would
assume are probably going to be better
than the ones close to the bottom at
least on the long side. That would be my
intuition. And if you look at the chart,
it probably
uh that's I think that's a way that
traders can understand. And just
describing that specific situation, you
could see how some of those trades are
going to be very different and you could
use that to add a rule to your strategy
that improves it. So that's really what
these columns are doing. All these
columns are, you know, you can think of
them as indicators, but really what they
are is opportunities
for you to create a rule to skip certain
trades that are coming through the
system. Like we said earlier, you know,
that's the difference between two
traders that are trading what they think
is the exact same system. Some of them
are just skipping the the the bad trades
and taking the good trades. So this
that's a really good example. I think is
probably crystal clear for traders.
That's a good situation to look for
that, you know, one trader's taking the
ones at the top of the range, another
one's taking the ones at the bottom of
the range, too, and the the other one's
skipping them. So, they end up with very
different results.
So, what tools do you use to determine
after you run the back test and you have
these columns and you're able to look at
all of these things like percent, range,
and arval, what tool do you use to
actually see that data and make the
decision?
So
I've created this tool for myself and
you know it's it's evolved over the
years. So over the course of 15 years
I've developed a tool set for myself
that I use locally and when I realized
just how powerful it was
for years I was like I'm not telling
anybody about this that there's like
it's too powerful. I'm not that would be
silly to do that. But I've
I I finally realized that
like I'm trying to make a big impact in
this industry. There's so much snake
oil. I see so many people back testing
the wrong way like trading a strategy
and they're so close but you know if
their optimization process was a little
bit better they wouldn't have quit. So,
I've made it available as part of what I
call MAPEKit. It's called it's the
strategy cruncher. So, basically, you
upload your back test and it's going to
tell you exactly the optimal rules you
could apply to your strategy to make it
better in a way that makes total sense
to you.
So
yeah, that that's the tool I use and I
used you know a more primitive version
of it for many years and uh you know
I've made it available uh as Mavec for
uh other traders to use.
>> Thank you again for letting us use it.
You know had the chance to dabble and it
is very awesome. It's it literally plain
as day just shows you exactly the
indicators. Yeah, it's I know it's good
just because I've used it for so many
years and ah it's it's great
>> and it's ridiculously fast. We tried to
replicate a dumb down version of it and
it was a lot slower. [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> So you have the optimizer, it's telling
you the exact rules to use. Have you
found there's like a magic number to the
amount of rules that you want to put
then in the strategy? Is there too much
rules, too many rules?
>> Yeah. So, so a lot of traders when they
think of optimizing or optimization,
they think, "Oh, well, curve fitting,
you're going to end up with too many
rules." Like, this is obviously curve
fitting.
But a good optimization process and when
you use the cruncher or some other
tools, you're going to end up with fewer
rules.
So there's less of a chance of curve
fitting. So
you know it it's going to tell you like
back to our gap example, it'll tell you
the exact threshold to use. Maybe it's
like 3.8.
And a lot of traders will say, "Oh, well
3.8, you know, that's so specific.
That's like curve fitting." Well, no.
It's it's literally the optimal point to
use given your trading set. So there's
no reason not to use that. Like no, the
market doesn't care that it's not a
round number, right?
>> Exactly. So
>> you taught me that.
>> Yeah. So it's like why not just use the
optimal one? That's that's the one you
should be using.
>> So yeah.
>> So how does that lead to fewer? You said
now you're going to have fewer.
>> Yeah.
>> Because you're using more significant.
>> Yeah. You're going to be selecting rules
that are like more powerful. They're
more predictive. So, when you can use
one, like why use three rules
to filter trades down when you can use
one that does all the work? And that's
just going to make your strategy a lot
less complex, more easy for you to
understand. And uh
and it's going to have it's going to
it's going to be more more robust, and
have more staying power when you do it
that way.
The thing I like about the strategy
cruncher and just going about it this
way is that when you run the back test,
you have your columns, right? You have
your CSV file or whatever and it's going
to read that and then show you the
optimal cut offs for all of these
things, but it ranks them, right? And it
shows the difference that each indicator
value optimal value makes in the back
test. So you can see like these, you
know, these two or three seem to have a
lot of predictive power and these are
really robust. You know, these other
ones, they make it better, but it's not
even close, right? And then you might
notice that, okay,
>> these two or three are are telling you
something about the strategy, right?
It's not just cool, the numbers like
check off the box. What Tim and I like
to do is say, "Oh, that's super
interesting. Now, let's go look at the
charts and see and and and pay attention
to this particular market dynamic that
that the strategy cruncher is telling us
about and see if this makes sense
>> as traders. So, like do do you think
there's any value in
>> bringing in that kind of sifting through
charts discretionary sort of element?
>> Oh, totally. Totally. So, you know,
I
one thing that I did not do with the
strategy cruncher, which I totally
could, is like automatically come up
with the entire strategy and all the
rules, but I purposely am only showing
one rule at a time, like one set at a
time. And I'm and I that's on purpose.
that's forcing you to think about which
rule to apply and that's really how you
learn and and and in exactly the process
you you you just described of
uh you know looking at what is it
suggested going back and look at the
charts to see why that is why why are
these trades looking like that you know
why is this why is it pointing to this
value as optimal let me go and look at
some of those and see why oftentimes
what comes from that is
you're going to learn things about your
strategy and the market which you didn't
know before and you're going to be able
to create a new strategy based on that
knowledge that's like completely
separate from the one you're looking at
now. So really the traders that use it
here here's the the typical path is
they you they start using the cruncher
they find something to improve the
strategy they're trading now that's
great. They all of a sudden they they
get rid of like 20% of the bad trades
their strategy is way better just from
this one you know the first time they
use it. But the real power is strategy
two and three. Once they realize
what power there is there, you can think
about a strategy from the ground up
using this in a and really harness the
power. So really strategy two or three
are typically better because they've
they've learned how it works. They've
learned something about the market that
they didn't know before. some
relationship that is predictive and they
created the strategy based on that.
That's really where the power comes
from.
>> We have our uh our our trade idea,
right? Our strategy idea with with a
let's say a gap up trade, right? And now
we've developed the back test, casting a
wide net, lot of trades, we have our
columns, we have all of our indicators
in there. We're now we're using the
strategy cruncher or whatever. Um you
this is the kind of thing where you can
build these kind of things yourself like
Tim and I have. It hasn't been as good
as the strategy cruncher but you know
we're looking at the data and we're
filtering out now we have a really
strong signal. So
great we have a strategy but now we got
to figure out where to sell. So
>> how do you how do you figure out how to
manage these trades and and what's your
process for that?
So usually I've already decided that by
the time I run the back test. So I have
some sense of it. And now the so I might
run a back test without stops or targets
with just a time stop with the thought
of picking the optimal stop to use.
And you can do that by using MF and MAE
which are basically the the excursions
like the the point at which the trade
was the most profitable and the least
profitable. You can use that to figure
out the optimal stop to use. So what my
typical path is create a back test with
no stop or target.
use that, figure out what the optimal
stop should be
without, you know, on the unoptimized
trade set, then run a back test with the
optimal stop in there. So now I've got
the the the real trade set that I'm
going to use and, you know, a subset of
which I'll actually end up going live
with and then I'll start the
optimization process from that point.
Um
it it also one other option is to to do
some optimization without a stop. That's
and then compare and see what things
look important with and without the
stop. That's another thing to do. It's
more of an advanced move. You could
certainly
uh sort of my my default approach is
select the stop then do optimization.
Makes a lot of sense. On the target
front, I remember from one of our calls,
um, you have quite the opinion on, uh,
profit targets.
>> Yeah.
>> What's your take on profit targets?
>> Well, it's partial profits is what
>> Yes, that's
>> uh,
>> you know, you hear one of the first
things I think you learn as a trader.
You hear people saying
uh you know if you're in a profitable
position you know what should you do? A
lot of traders will say hey why don't
you take a half off and move your stop
to break even. If you go back and do the
math on that it is the one of the worst
things you could do. Like you're you're
basically if if you compare that to not
doing it you're you're equity curve is
just way higher when you don't take
partial profits.
And you know, I found this out just by
testing it and doing that in my own
trading and then comparing to the back
test. I'm like, man, I just I just gave
up so much money by taking this partial
profit and you know, it makes you feel
better,
>> especially to break even, too. You're
like, "Oh, I'm not going to lose."
>> Yeah. Playing with house money, right?
Yeah. This is
>> But you're giving up so much by doing
that. A lot of it is
just for psychological comfort.
>> Yeah.
>> And which has some value, but at least
understand why you're doing it. And
you know, if make sure you look at the
numbers, if you were able to take your
full size all the way to the target,
you're going to there's going to be some
really massive winners there. And if you
can
stomach those, that's where a lot of
your profit's going to come from. So
think about that. Go back and do the
math and and certainly understand the
tradeoff about those partial profits and
what they're really costing you.
>> And seeing that on paper, too, helps a
ton. You need to actually do the work
and see it. And then you'll be like,
"Oh, yeah. I hate partial profits."
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
Uh Adam Grimes told the story once and I
don't know if you guys are familiar with
him but he's he's he wrote that book um
the art and science of technical
analysis and um really interesting guy.
I've read the book. It's a very good
book. Um and I I heard him talk once
about how he's a systematic trader. I
don't think it's fully automated, but he
does tons of back testing and everything
is based on, you know, systematized
processes. And and for years, he was
trading with the mentality of of holding
and, you know, holding for big wins. And
he started working with someone who said
like, "Hey, Adam, I've been looking at
all your trades." And
it seems like if you just took a one R
profit on every single trade, you'd be
doing a lot better. one R being like if
you're risking you know 10 bucks then
sell when you're up 10 bucks and I mean
to a trader and and Adam's response was
there's no way that's going to be good
and that goes against everything I think
about as a trader.
>> Yeah.
>> And of course that's my reaction too is
it's like how can you know you got to
let your winners run and he did he went
back and tested it and it was a lot
better. And so I guess like from this
point on he's traded that strategy with
a one R profit target like ever since
even to to against his own intuition
just because that's what the data set.
>> What do you think about that?
>> I think I think depending on the
strategy that could be a a very good
thing to do. I think it's going to
depend on the signal. It's going to
depend on the spirit of what you're
really trying to capture with the
strategy. So,
um I would think ones that trades where
your hold time is shorter, maybe you're
looking for a smaller move, that would
probably work really well. But if you're
looking for something that needs to be
trending, you know, needs to trend all
day for it to work. Um I would think a a
f a target further out or no target at
all would probably be better. So, I
think it's going to depend a lot on the
the strategy itself. There's not going
to be one blanket answer that's going to
work across every strategy. Everything
every every system is going to be
different.
>> And by no target at all, you mean sell
on the close, right? That's something
that or or cover on the close is
something you do quite often. Correct.
>> Yeah. I mean, a lot of, you know, I do
exclusively day trading. So, if you
think about it, the longest hold time
you can have is basically all day. So, a
lot of times I'm I'm
in positions all day and you know, if
the day were longer, I'd be holding
longer, but that's like a natural time
to to exit. It's um so yeah, often I'm
for a lot of strategies that I trade,
that's what I'm doing.
>> Speaking of days longer, Dave, uh are
you thinking about the 247 markets and
would that mean anything to you? Are you
excited? Maybe like part of me thinks
there might be inefficiencies because
it's new. Um, and maybe there's some uh
unusual activity bringing it back to
what you said. But yeah, I'm curious
because that could be fun.
>> Yeah, I think I suspect there'll be some
serious inefficiencies certainly at the
beginning. Um, I mean there is some 247
trading now. I think at IB uh you can
trade 24 hours with some names already.
Um, but yeah, I think there's,
you know, I think it's going to be a big
change. I don't think it's going to be
quite as big as some people think, but
um, like I don't think the open and the
close is going away anytime soon. Uh,
but yeah, I think it's certainly
interesting and anytime there's a big
change like that, there's always
opportunities for edge.
>> That's what I'm kind of thinking at
least. We'll we'll have to see.
>> I think also Robin Hood has the 247
trading right now.
>> So, I kind of wanted uh to ask about I
know you've been working with a couple
guys at SMB Capital uh Memo and uh Chris
EPS and I'm kind of curious how that
started that collaboration started.
>> Okay. So, it's kind of an interesting
story because
I've always done a lot of writing, just
written stuff on a blog. I mean,
starting from probably, it was probably
2000 when I started doing that. And I
started writing about trading in
probably
16 or 17, somewhere in there. So, I knew
what I was doing was pretty unique. Man,
I didn't see anybody else doing what I
was doing. So, I started putting some
ideas out there. And
uh all of a sudden, Bella, Mike Bellory,
reached out to me on Twitter
and he had read one of the uh posts I
wrote and and like wanted to meet up. We
had a Zoom call and he was asking about
my trading and stuff. I was like, you
know, I was uh shared what I was doing.
He said, "All right, well, next time
you're up in New York, let me know.
Let's let's meet up." So,
I I was happen to be going up to New
York in the next month or so. So, I met
up with him and I went over in detail,
like I showed him what I was doing, like
all the trades I was making.
And I remember, so I was in his
apartment there. We were looking at my
trades and
one thing he said was, "Dave, I don't
think a lot of our traders could even
get by with the rates you're paying at
IB and like as well as you're doing."
And I was like, "Oh, okay. Well, I never
really thought about it that way." So,
basically, he I think saw something in
me and it was all because of that
writing I was doing. It was it was I'm
sure it was 100% from the writing I was
putting out there. And
uh so he he said, "Why don't you talk
with Memo?" And so yeah, I I talked with
Memo. I met with him out in San
Francisco.
We got along really well. So and so
we've had this collaboration for some
time now. And
you know, a big thing that Mike says a
lot is networking is a trading skill.
And it totally is. Like I've had many I
well not many but you know a handful of
collaborations over the years and you
know they come and go. Sometimes they're
uh sometimes they're productive for some
period, sometimes they're not. But the
more you share as a trader, the more
you're going to get back. And you should
be, you know, a lot of traders are
really secretive. They think they have
the secret sauce. Sort of like, uh, you
know, when I was sort of hoarding my
tools 10 years ago. Um, you're going to
get way more back when you share your
information. Building trust with other
traders. you know, you're not sharing
things just willy-nilly, but really
going out of your way to to and sort of
systematically building trust with other
traders to have collaborations. And the
way to think about it is like what can
you give that trader that's going to
make their life better, you should be a
default giver, not a taker. Most people
are takers. Most people are thinking
about themselves. You should be thinking
about how can you improve somebody
else's life? How can you make their
trading better?
Uh and when you start thinking about
that, there's going to be ways you can
help and and you'll develop these
collaborations which they're going to
be, you know, a lot of people, a lot of
traders think about things in completely
different ways than you do and they'll
be able to share ideas with you that you
will literally never think of without
that collaboration. So collaboration is
like a such an important part of being a
trader and it's you should have a
process for building trust with other
traders and part of that is being a
giver not a taker.
>> That story is awesome and Bella is the
best at networking.
>> Yeah.
>> So what makes the collaboration with
Memo so good? Like what are each of you
guys kind of bringing? like do you have
a specialty that each of you are
bringing to the team in the
collaboration?
>> So,
you know, most people when they think of
who they can collaborate with, they're
looking for people that are basically
clones of themselves like that trade
exactly like they do or similar to they
do to the way they do when really the
better collaborations you should be
looking for people that trade completely
differently than you. And that was the
case here. like they were doing stuff
that I'd never thought about and I was
doing stuff that they had never thought
about. It was completely different. So
like the the process of sharing those
ideas and like
wrestling back and forth and you know
understanding why you thought this and
why they think this and you know you're
obviously confident in this strategy.
How did that confidence come about? what
was the path you took to get there?
Those sort of collaborations are really
where
magic can happen and you can really make
big strides in your trading. So yeah,
it's it's something you know I have a
very kind of specific process for
uh that I suggest traders do and that's
you know be a giver not a taker.
Yeah, it's great advice. And that's
where when you have different skills in
trading different things, one plus one
equals a lot more than two. It's another
Bella quote.
>> No question. No question about it.
>> Everybody has an Achilles heel, right?
Like every every trader has has a
weakness, has a strength, and sometimes
when you find those partnerships where
you kind of fill in the blanks a little
bit and help each other out, I think,
you know, is great. So, I mean, Tim has
no weaknesses, which is why I partner
with him.
>> You're talking saying I have a zit on my
forehead, but
>> but [laughter] that's just a that's just
a selfish thing. So, I'm I'm just
partnering with Tim for completely
selfish reasons,
>> but not at all.
>> I'll work I'll work on No, I I've helped
you out a couple times, I suppose.
>> Oh, yeah. Um, well Dave, we got we have
one more question for you and I'm going
to ask it, but I'm going to give Tim the
credit for for coming up with this
question because um I think that he
should.
>> If you had a billboard in Time Square
that you could put anything on,
something you want the world to see,
what would it be?
>> Oh, wow.
Um,
if it was if it was only traders in
Times Square that were looking at it,
what I would say is
your the the strategy that you're going
to make the most money from in your
career, you haven't thought of yet.
>> I like that. So
>> that message will be, okay, what process
are you going to put in place to create
that to to put yourself in a position to
have the idea that's going to turn into
a strategy that's going to be your most
profitable?
So that
that's kind of the that that would be my
message. I I think that's I think a lot
of traders
uh I work with a lot of traders that
they don't realize how smart they are.
um they don't realize how good they are
and they don't realize how good they can
be. And I think that's my message to
traders everywhere. Like you you are you
can be better than you are now. And
you've got it within you to do that.
>> So let's do it.
>> Let's do it.
>> Well, Dave, thank you so much for
joining us. It's been a pleasure as
always. We'll do this again, I'm sure,
in the future, but we really appreciate
it.
>> Yeah. Thank you, Dave.
>> Where can I appreciate having where can
people follow you or find you?
>> Yeah, the easiest way is I've got a free
course on back testing. It's called
better back testing. So, it's a sixday
email course. It's totally free. If you
go to betterbacktesting.com,
you can sign up for it. It'll take you
right to the signup page. That's the
easiest place to start. And you can also
just feel free to email me at daved
davemade.com is my email address. But
yeah, it's um yeah, it's an honor to be
on here, guys. This is this was totally
fun.
>> Yeah, it was a blast. So, we'll we'll
see you at the uh the next coffee
session.
>> Yeah, I'm excited to pick your brain
again.
>> Yeah, this was great. Hey, you guys are
doing a great job with this podcast. I
was I've listened to every episode and
you know, Garrett, when you told me the
idea for this, I was like, well, that'll
be kind of interesting. Let's see what
it's like. But man, the episodes are
riveting. I I really like listening to
them. It's really great.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. That That's awesome.
>> Y'all are doing a great job.
>> Well, we're we're having fun doing it.
We're having fun. We're good. We're get
we'll we'll figure it out one of these
days. [laughter]
>> Exactly.
>> All right, guys. Well, good good talking
to you and uh until next time. Trade
well out there.