What's going on everybody and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we have a very special
guest today. We're out in Scottsdale,
Arizona with Pace Morby who is a
nine-figure entrepreneur, one of the
most successful real estate
entrepreneurs in the entire world. He's
amassed a real estate portfolio of half
a billion dollars worth of property. He
owns 2,000 doors right now and you
you've just been crushing the game for
now 10 years now in real estate but an
entrepreneur for 20 years. Pleasure to
be here with you today.
Thank you guys. Appreciate you guys. All
the way from Virginia, three Virginia
boys. Yes, sir. For those who don't
know, some new viewers tuning in,
haven't really seen or heard about you
much before, give a little bit of a
background on yourself, how you got to
where you are now. We'd love to just
give them a little introduction to
yourself.
I started off with a cheat code, boys.
My cheat code was growing up in a family
that valued work ethic.
And that was something I never had to
fight through. So, I grew up in a family
of 12 kids. Mom and dad still together.
All 12 kids, same mom, same dad. I'm
number three. So, I changed a lot of
diapers when I was growing up. I babysat
a lot. But more importantly, I learned
how to fix things around the house. I
learned how to make money from my dad.
Obviously, 12 kids, my dad didn't have a
lot of money to just go, "Hey, here's a
cell phone. Here's a car. Here's a
this." If I wanted to take a girl on a
date or do something that needed money,
my dad would go, "Go paint the fascia.
Go paint the fence." So, everything was
teaching me how to go make money, right?
The challenge was I learned how to trade
my time for money, which is what my dad
still to this day does. And I ultimately
got into construction as well and I
built a big construction company was
doing $25 million a year in my 20s. And
I had like 250 employees. And one of my
customers
came to me and was like, "Why aren't you
in real estate?"
And I said, "I am in real estate. Look
at all these houses I'm fixing. Look at
all this stuff she's I'm doing." She
says to me, "You're not in real estate.
You're a slave to me. I'm in real
estate. I own the house. All you're
doing is working for me."
And I go, "No, I own my business." She
goes, "No, you don't. I own your
business. If I stop buying houses, you
are out of a job."
I was like, "Oh my gosh. Damn, that's
strong." So,
this lady, Bethany, taught me how to get
into real estate about 10, 11 years ago.
And that first month I was in real
estate, I've never been a licensed real
estate agent nor would I ever be. I'm
just an investor. I made 50 grand in my
first 30 days. And the freaking rest was
just me being passionately driven to
just go and buy real estate the way that
this lady taught me. I wanted to ask
you. So, when you had made that
transition into real estate, you made 50
grand in your 30 days in the first 30
days. What were you doing? Okay, so she
comes to me. Her name is Bethany.
And Bethany says to me, you know,
everything. She's like, actually, the
thing that hurt my feelings the most is
she said, "I can replace you. You're
just a contractor.
I can Google
and replace you. You are a simple Google
search away from being replaced." is
what she says to me. I was like, "Damn."
And I said, "Well, who's not
replaceable?" And she says, "The person
who owns the house is non-replaceable. I
can replace my tenants. I can replace my
stupid real estate agent. I can replace
my stupid contractor."
And she just gave it to me in a way that
I really needed to hear. And I'm like,
"Okay, well, then how do I get started
in real estate?" She says, "There's
three ways to make money in real estate.
Okay?
Three umbrellas. You can wholesale.
You can fix and flip or you can buy and
hold, right? And she told me
fix wholesaling is today money. Fixing
and flipping is tomorrow money and
buying and holding is forever money."
And I said, "Well, I need money today. I
want to I want to see how quickly I can
get into it." So, she says,
"Do you have any money?" I go, "Yeah, I
have some money." Now, I don't teach
people how to do this now. This is
obviously old kind of uh 10-year-old
strategy. But she says, "I want you to
spend $5,000 on direct mail." Do you
guys know what direct mail is? Yes.
Okay, so for the audience, it's
basically postcards. A postcard says,
"I'll buy your house," right? And I sent
out $5,000 in postcards not knowing what
the hell I'm doing. And she said, "Don't
worry. When the leads start coming in,
I'll go on those appointments with you."
And so, I get my first lead comes in, a
lady named uh Janie Munson is the
seller's name.
And Janie, this is like I know this
might take 5 minutes to tell you the
story but I'm telling you for the
audience perspective, for you to
understand how deals get done like start
to finish. This is what our entire
business is about, okay? So, I sent out
the postcard, "We'll buy your house."
Janie Munson calls me, "Hey, my name is
Janie. I saw your postcard. You buy
houses, right?" I go, "Yeah, I buy
houses." And she goes, "Okay, great. Do
you want to come see the house?" Like I
I had no idea how to set the
appointment. I didn't know what to value
the house at. I didn't know what my next
steps were. So, I would call Bethany
every single time, the lady who got me
started. "What do I do?" She says, "Go
on the appointment, you idiot. Stop
asking. Go on the stupid appointment.
You're going to buy the house." I go, "I
don't have the money to buy the house."
She goes, "Don't worry about that. We'll
get to that when we get to that.
One step at a time.
Go on the appointment." I go, "Okay,
well, I don't know what to give the lady
as an offer."
Assuming I had the money,
I don't know what to offer the house.
And she says, she pulls up the address.
And she's obviously experienced. So,
there's the tip is get around
experienced real estate investors and
they'll give you the answers.
And she says, "Give the lady an offer no
higher than $150,000."
I go, "Okay. All right. I I think I can
do that." And I'm thinking I'm just
going to walk into the house and go,
"$150,000." She's going to go, "Okay,
here you go." And it's magically going
to happen.
That is not what happened.
I go on the appointment. I walk in the
house. I'm just talking to the lady. The
house has obviously not been renovated
in 40 years. Single pane windows. Hot
water heater's like being held up by a
freaking duct tape. Roof shingles need
to be replaced.
Kitchen's outdated. Everything.
We walk into the kitchen. We're sitting
there talking to the counter top and I
look at her counter top and on the top
of it, there are other postcards from
other investors and business cards from
other real estate investor real estate
agents who are trying to list her house.
And I asked her one of the most
important questions. I said, "So, Janie,
like why did you call me?
Like you obviously have a lot of people
you're meeting with. Why haven't you
sold the house yet?"
And she said, "Well, I am retiring
school teacher. I obviously did not have
the money to renovate this house and
keep it in tip-top shape. And so, I'm
trying to get the best I can with an
all-cash offer because I don't think I
can put my house on the market because
it's in such bad shape."
I go, "Okay, well, why haven't you sold
it yet?" She says, "Because the offer I
have
is $165,000
and I need more than $165,000." Now, I
have a problem, don't I?
My problem is
Bethany told me not to offer anything
over 150.
And Janie just told me she needs more
than what somebody already overbid her
at 165. And I'm like,
"I can't help you."
And so, Janie's like, "What do you mean
you can't help me? You came to my house.
You drove all the way up here. What do
you mean you can't help me? Like if
there's a will, there's a way." And I
go, "No, I can't help you. You ask you
have too much money. You're Somebody
gave you too high of an offer." And she
goes, "Are you playing games with me? Is
this some sales strategy?" I go, "No, I
literally can't help you. You should go
and sell your house for 165 cuz I can't
come to that number."
She goes, "Okay, what do what do we do
now?" I go, "I guess I just leave."
So, I'm walking out the front door.
And I turn to her and I go, "Dude, this
is not how a good Utah boy was raised.
This is not how a Virginia boy was
raised. Even though I can't buy this
lady's house, she's a single woman,
retiring school teacher, needing help."
And I go, "I can't buy your house but is
there anything I can do to help you?"
Like anything I can do to help you at
all? She's like, "What do you mean? What
could you do for me?" I go, "Well, I'm a
contractor. I have guys. I have crews. I
could help you load your truck. I could,
you know, whatever you need to move,
I'll load your truck." She's like, "You
would do that?"
I go, "Yeah, I would do that. You know,
come from a big family. Like I'm all
about family and helping people out and
I loved my freaking school teachers. I
loved Mrs. Rose. I had a crush on Mrs.
Heredia. I don't have a crush on you,
lady, but I, you know, I loved my school
teachers."
She goes, "You really want to help me?"
I go, "Yeah, really want to help you."
She goes, "Okay, I have a big problem.
You want You want to know about my big
problem?"
And guys, everything I'm going to I'm
going to tell you right now sounds like
a stupid problem that she has.
But thousands and thousands and
thousands of transactions, even Jordan
who's here right now, he just made 95
grand on a deal the other you know, a
couple months back.
It's always by asking the seller, "What
is your problem?" And figuring out the
solution to their problem.
You won't believe her problem. It You
will when I tell you but it's absolutely
true. It's so insignificant. You guys
would solve the problem in 2 seconds.
So, she goes, "You really want to know
my problem?" I go, "Yeah, I want to know
the problem." So, she takes me
and she says, "Come to my backyard." We
go to the backyard.
And she opens up her sliding glass door
and she shows me three
Flemish bunnies. Do you know what a
Flemish bunny is?
They're the size of a 5-year-old child.
They look like miniature horses. They're
bunnies. Like literally the size of a
5-year-old child.
And she goes, "My granddaughter brought
these home 10 years ago. They grew way
bigger than we thought. We thought we
She won them at a carnival. And we
thought they're going to be little cute
bunnies. They're literally this big. And
I can't retire by feeding these bunnies.
I need somebody to take these bunnies
that I can trust."
I'm like, "That's it? This is literally
your biggest problem?"
Okay.
And I go, "All right. Let me call my
mom." I call my mom. My mom comes up
there in a red truck I've never seen
before. Still have no idea where that
truck I got to call ask my mom and be
like, "Where'd that red truck come
from?"
My mom takes the three bunnies and says,
"I'm going to go give them to somebody
at my church. And I'll find a good home
for them." And Janie's standing there
crying going, "What the heck? Like
this is insane. You're not You're not
even going to offer anything on my
house." I go, "Janie, I can't. You have
an offer at 165.
I I can't even come close to that." She
goes, "You're playing games with me."
"Just give me the effing offer." I go,
"I can't."
She goes, "Then what do we do?" I go, "I
leave."
So, I leave.
Nothing happens.
2 weeks later, I get a call from Janie.
She says, "Pace, as a school teacher,
I've always given my kids homework.
And I gave myself homework. I wrote it
on the calendar, today is the day I'm
making a decision on who I'm selling the
house to. And I made the decision, I'm
selling the house to you."
I go, "What do you mean?
I can't come up to your 165 or even over
that, which is what you're looking for
and you deserve it."
She goes,
"15 people came to my house before you,
and 15 people came to my house after
you. You were the only person out of 31
people I met with that actually asked
me,
let alone did anything, asked me if
there's anything I I needed help with."
And she was 2 weeks later, "I've been
waiting for you to call me and like
guilt me into giving you my house
because you helped me with this problem
that I was suffering with. The fact is,
Pace, I retired from school 3 years ago,
and I've been holding off on selling my
house until I find a a solution to these
three bunnies." So, I call Bethany, I
go, "Bethany, Janie wants to sell the
house to me." She's like, "We can't pay
165, Pace." I go, "No, she said she'd do
it for 150." Okay, so we go up to the
house, we sign the paperwork, still have
no idea how to fill out the paperwork.
Bethany did that for me.
I have no idea where the hell the
money's coming from.
Where's the 150 coming from?
I've no idea where the 150 is coming
from.
And so, um we walk out of the house, and
Bethany
um says to me, she goes, "You know why
you got that house?" And I said, "Why?"
She goes, "This is the most important
piece of real estate you'll ever need to
know. You need to find the bunnies."
Everybody else came in her living room,
they asked her stupid superficial
things, they beat her up about her
house, they said, "Your house is ugly,
blah blah blah blah blah." You were the
only person that found her bunnies. And
so, my logo, bunny ears.
That is amazing.
Yeah. I'm always looking for the
bunnies. What's the problem with the
seller? And I could go on and on and on
about thousands of stories of sellers
that I've helped. That was my first
deal, and what happened is, I'm in the
truck, and I'm sitting there with
Bethany, we drove to the appointment
together, and I go, "So, what do I do
with this house?" And I'll tell you how
bad my mindset was at this time, okay? I
was a contractor, my identity was I'm a
contractor, right? So, I go, "Where's
the 150 coming from, and what am I going
to do with the house?" She goes, "No,
dude, you're going to sell the house to
me for 175." And I go,
"Okay, so I got to buy it for 150, and
then I got to resell it to you for 175."
She goes, "No, no, no.
I'll buy your contract for 175, and you
don't ever have to come up with any
money. It's called wholesaling."
I'm like, "You're lying to me. This is a
thing? That sounds illegal."
She goes, "I can guarantee you it's not
illegal."
And she buys this house at 175,
pays Janie 150, and I walk away with 25
grand for like 7 hours worth of work.
And I'm like, "Where has this been my
whole effing life?" And I was able to
help a seller, like a like truly. And
Janie, every single year, that was 10
years ago, I get a Christmas card from
Janie every year.
Her, she's up in Oregon, she's retired.
And I'm like, "I still get a Christmas
card from this lady, right?" So,
Bethany, this is how messed up my
mindset was, I was more excited about
something
over the 25 grand. You know what the
thing I was excited about?
I was excited that Bethany bought
another house so I could flip that house
for her. As the contractor
in my brain, I go, "Oh, amazing,
Bethany, you're going to buy the house
so I can flip the house for you. I can
do the construction."
And she says, "You are hereby fired as
my contractor. You know how to find real
estate transactions and do these deals.
You should never do it another
construction job ever again." And it
took me 4 years to quit quit
construction. It took me 4 years to
convince myself that I could do it
full-time.
Why did it take you so long? Mindset. I
I I had an identity.
What Here's what happened. You know when
I go went full-time? Was when one of my
biggest construction companies uh uh
companies
that I was doing work for, they filed
bankruptcy and lost 16 million bucks.
I lost everything as a contractor, and I
was like, "Eff this."
Bethany was right the whole time. So,
for 4 years, I was doing wholesale and
creative finance and buying rentals and
doing all this stuff. 4 years later, my
biggest customer files bankrupt
bankruptcy, and I have all this money
tied up in all these projects, I lose
everything. I have to sell my rentals, I
have to do I have to get rid of all my
real estate I had accumulated for that
4-month time or that 4-year time frame
just to liquidate and get out of the
construction business, but I knew how to
find deals. So, I just I was like, "You
know what? Eff this, I'm going
full-time."
Bethany was right the whole time.
Bethany says, "You don't own your
business,
your customers do. The only person that
owns their business is the real estate
investor. You cannot replace the the
real estate investor." And I was like,
it took me 4 years I finally called
Bethany, I was like, "You were right."
She's like, "I told you, you stupid
idiot." And so, I was doing real estate
and running my construction company
simultaneously. I should have just
jumped right into real estate, but I
didn't have the belief in myself. And
that wasn't the identity I had. I had to
dismantle every belief about myself and
recreate the new me. So, but you you
found you found the bunnies. I found the
bunnies. Which is the That was the root
of the problem that your seller was
dealing with. And every deal that you'll
ever do, I'll I'll give you a big deal
nowadays. I'll give you another more
complicated problem, okay? So, I've got
an RV park that we just bought, 85 pads,
right? So, that means I can rent out 85
spaces and make monthly rents on 85
spaces, pretty cool. It's right next to
Glacier National Park. The the seller,
his name is Eric, he buys it about a
year ago for about 4 million bucks,
okay?
So, if you buy something for 4 million
and you resell it for 5 million, how
much money do you make? Think you make a
million. On paper, you think you make a
million, but here's what happens, you
have capital gains tax of like 40%. So,
he's got a $400,000 tax bill right out
of the gate, then you got
like uh real estate agent commission.
You go earn a million dollars
to ba- basically net half a million
dollars. Welcome to [ __ ] real estate
and like the government getting their
hands in everything, right? Okay, cool.
So, Eric
overpriced his property at 5 million. It
probably was only worth 4.8. I bought it
for 5.
Why would I overpay for a piece of real
estate? Why would I overpay for a piece
of real estate? Because I understand
creative finance, okay? So, what's the
interest rate right now?
What do you guys know Do you guys know
what the interest rate is right now? If
I go out and buy a house right now,
what's the rate?
I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Okay, it's
between 7 and 9%. So, when I go to Eric,
the seller of this property, I don't get
I don't go get a bank loan to buy him. I
go to Eric and I say, "Hey, Eric,
how about this? I can show you how to
avoid your capital gains tax." You guys
are too young, you're not in real
estate, so you don't know how to do
that, but it's called creative finance.
So, I go to Eric and I go, "Eric, I'm
going to upgrade you from the landlord."
Why did Eric want to sell? Do you guys
know why a seller will want to sell a
big property like that? It's making
money, why would he sell it? There's
some sort of motivation, so maybe it's
pain. The maintenance, tired of tired of
like maintaining it or Oh, tired They're
called tired landlords. There's millions
of them over the world. They You guys
have met bad operators of businesses,
right? Yes, absolutely. Hell, you guys
have met influencers that look really
cool on the outside, and you go to their
office, you're like, "Shit, you guys
have nothing going on."
Okay, so there's people you look at like
a big cash-flowing RV park, but then
behind the scenes, they're mismanaging
their money, their their um employees
are stealing money from them.
Eric had everything going wrong at this
property.
And I go, "I know how to fix that
problem. That's easy." So, I go to Eric
and I go, "I'll pay you 5 million as
long as I don't have to bring any money
to the table, and you let me make you
monthly payments, and you become my
bank."
And he goes, "Is that legal?" I go,
"Yes, it's legal. Get on the phone with
my attorney, let my CPA talk to your
CPA, and I'll show you how to avoid all
your capital gains tax." So, now, if he
goes and sells it on the cash market
with a real estate agent, he'll sell it
for 5 million,
walk away with $500,000 profit. He sells
through me, he'll walk away with all $1
million of his profit. He just has to
wait a longer period of time. Does that
make sense?
And so, I'm giving I'm paying people
more money.
But my interest rate with Eric, because
he's my bank,
okay? So, let's We'll we'll We'll work
out a creative finance deal between us
in a in just a second. I'll show you
what terms are.
I worked out terms, which is four parts.
I said, "No money down,
4% interest, give me 10 years to pay you
off or refinance you out, and you'll
have all your money within the next 10
years." And he's like, "Oh, yeah, 10
years to make an extra half a million
dollars all day long, and you'll take
this off my hands right now." Boom,
done.
So, I'm so I'm finding their their
bunnies. His bunnies were way more
sophisticated, tax implications, it real
estate agents' commissions, he doesn't
want to pay all that crap. And he's
like, "I want to retire and get out of
this property because I thought I could
manage it, and I couldn't."
So, the bigger the asset, the more pain
they have.
So, when you're in single family,
usually the problems you're solving for
the seller are stupid little problems
like, "My do- my wife cheated on me, and
now I and she left, and now I can't
afford the payments
because that we were two income
household, and now we're one income
household because she left me."
That's a That's bunnies.
So, I go, "Okay, well, what if I just
take over the payments and you move and
go get a rental somewhere?"
And I That's what I do, I take over
people's payments on their houses all
the time, no credit check, no money out
of my pocket. I take that property, but
what do I know that that seller doesn't
know?
I know how to turn it into a
cash-flowing property. So, my payments
are being made.
Right? So, my tenant I go get a tenant
at 3,000, I take over this guy's
payments at 2,000.
I have no money in the deal, no credit
check. I don't even have a job to go to
a bank. I have not walked in a bank and
done an application for Are you kidding
me?
People still do that stupid [ __ ]
People go to banks and go and ask for
the bank to give them money? How about
just go to the seller and say, "Can I
just make payments to you?" Right? So,
let's say
We talked about this earlier with your
iPhone. What iPhones do you we have?
12. Okay, you have a 12, 14, 13. Okay.
So, at point some point, you're going to
want to upgrade your phone. You have the
oldest phone, right? The 12? Okay.
What do you think that you could sell
that 12 for right now?
If you put it on Craigslist,
5 500, 600 bucks.
Okay.
Look up Go on Craigslist and look up an
iPhone 12, and tell me what people are
listing it for.
Okay, so think about this.
Listing it on the market is Craigslist,
right?
Yeah. Well, listing it on the market in
real estate is the MLS, okay? There are
a lot of deals that people will put on
Craigslist like, "I'm not getting
offers, I'm overpriced," all that kind
of stuff.
So, I can do this with a phone, I can do
it with a business, I can do it with a
plane, I can do it with anything, okay?
And my personal house, my businesses
that we buy, everything is all done
through creative finance. I don't use
any credit, no cash, none of that stuff.
So,
let's say it's 500 bucks, so we'll throw
it a number.
You put on Craigslist for 500 bucks, are
you getting 500 bucks? No. No, what's
what's going to happen on Craigslist?
Because someone's going to come in and
make an offer lower than 500.
Welcome to real estate investing, that's
what people do to these homeowners,
right? They put a house on the market
for 500 grand, somebody comes in and
offers 350, 375, 410, whatever. They're
getting low balled, right? Same thing
with the phone. So, you're not going to
walk away with 500 bucks, you already
know that when you list the property for
the thing for 500 bucks, right?
Correct. Okay.
So, what if I just said, "Hey dude, I'll
give you the 500 bucks. Hell, I'll even
give you $600 for that phone."
The only thing I want is I want to make
you $50 payments for the next 12 months.
Would you do that? Sure. Yeah, you're
going to make more money, right?
Yeah, make more money.
Okay, so I just worked out four terms
with you, you just didn't realize I did
it. Price, we worked that out, 600
bucks, right? Down payment, what's my
down payment?
$50. Nothing. No.
My payment to you is 50 bucks next
month. Yeah.
What's my interest rate? Zero. Zero
percent interest. Do you know how many
deals I get zero percent interest on?
Massive apartment buildings, businesses,
zero percent interest, just like I just
did with you right there. And then
length of time. What's our length of
time? 12 months. Yeah. That's a creative
finance deal, right? Those are your four
your four terms. So, all right, you guys
are young. Do you guys own your houses
yet? No.
Don't go to a bank. You'll never need a
bank in your life. You go directly to a
seller that is having a hard time
selling the house on the market and you
go, "Can I just take over your
payments?"
Have you bought a sub two deal yet?
Yeah.
Okay, so sub two is what we call it,
buying a house subject to the existing
payments. Okay, so I just bought your
your phone. How did you benefit?
I got more money in return. Boom.
You got you got more money.
Probably by 100, maybe 150 bucks. Did
you find out what they're selling for? I
saw 400, 340. Okay, 340. Guess what? I
would still pay you 500, 600 bucks for
that phone as long as Now, here's the
question.
Somebody starting out is going to go,
"Well, [ __ ] now you got a $50 payment
next month. That's a problem." No, it's
not, because now I have a phone. Can we
all agree I can make money with my
phone? Absolutely. Okay, I could do Uber
Eats. Right? You guys will probably
teach this in your community, right?
You'll teach people how to make money
from their phone. Yeah, it's an asset.
The phone's an asset. So, same thing
with me, when I go take over a house or
a business or an RV park, I know that RV
park is going to make me more money than
the payment I just created with that
seller.
So, when I'm going directly to the
seller, which I did with you, why can't
I do that with real estate? Why do I
have to go through the stupid ass real
estate agent?
Why do I have to go through a stupid ass
bank? What do I have to use your credit
my credit to buy that phone from you?
No. No, and you know what's better about
real estate? Is that it's physical
collateral. I could run off with your
phone.
I can't run off with a house. Yeah.
So, the sell the seller is secure. If I
stop making the payments, what happens?
Seller take keeps all the payments I
made him and he takes the house back.
Yeah. Make sense? Yes. Why would I buy
any Why would I buy a house or a
business any other way? Why go into a
bank? The only difference is what you
know. That's it? Yeah. And could you
break that down though? Cuz I mean, you
know,
sub two, you know, there's a huge
opportunity there. And let's let's say,
you know, you know, someone finds
someone who's motivated, they're in
pain, they want to sell, but maybe they
don't know that next step of the process
of actually, you know, putting someone
in that, you know, house or a tenant
really to actually start making those
payments and actually have an asset in
there instead of them taking taking over
the payments. Okay, so there's 26 exit
strategies, okay? What's an exit
strategy? An exit strategy is I take
that thing and I make a determination of
what do I do with it, right? So, that
phone, what's an exit strategy with that
phone?
I buy the phone, I got a $50 monthly
payment. I could go deliver pizzas, I
could do Uber Eats, I could do I could
do sales job. Hell, I could go work for
Andy Elliott. Do you think I could make
some money with Andy Elliott if I have a
phone? Yes. Hell yeah. I'd have to have
a six pack in order to go over there,
but I could go and make money with that
phone, right? Those are all individual
exit strategies, right? So, your
question is, I buy a house, how do I
determine what do I do with it, right?
There's 26 strategies. So, sometimes
it's short-term rental, which is Airbnb.
I don't love that model. I think that
model's going to go away for the most
part. Mid-term rental, which is growing.
Do you guys know what mid-term rental
is? Okay, so is that just like shorter
term leases? It's like It's like a
shorter term leases. Like instead of a
year, it's three to six months. And who
are they for?
Um let's say that a family has a hot
water heater flood in their house and
they have to move out of the house so
the insurance company can fix the house.
Where do they go?
The insurance company pays them to go
live in one of my houses.
That's a mid-term rental.
Those people pay like three times more.
You have a mid-term rental, don't you?
Yeah, traveling nurses mostly.
Okay, traveling nurses. So, you make the
you understand all the exit strategies.
I have a video on my YouTube channel
about all the exit strategies. Um some
of them are assisted living. I don't
want to do assisted living, it's like
old people and they're dying all the
time. I did that for four years, I
didn't want to do it anymore. Um some
are sober living, some are battered
women shelters. What about regular ass
rentals?
Yeah, section eight, right? All of these
different exit strategies. Once you know
how to buy the house, go to my YouTube
channel and type in Pace Morby subject
to. I'll show you the whole process. I
have a video on there
that's like a 45 minute video. I walk
through the steps exactly. Here's what
you do, then here's who you call, then
here's what you do, here's who you call.
45 minute video. Boom, go watch that.
Then you watch the video on 26 exit
strategies and you make the
determination of what you want to do.
Okay, if it's in a bad area, you're not
going to turn into a an Airbnb.
If it's in a bad area, you're probably
going to turn into a section eight.
Right? So, the area determines what you
do with the house. Yeah. If that makes
sense.
And you got to you look at the house.
Let's say I'm negotiating with a seller
and the seller says, "Yeah, you know,
I'm willing to let you take over my
payments." How much are your payments?
"Oh, they're 2,000 bucks a month." Okay,
great. So, now you go to like
rentometer.com and rentometer says, "You
can rent this property for 1,700 bucks a
month." Do we want that house? No. Hell
no.
Then I go to AirDNA and I go, "Okay, it
could it could do an Airbnb at $7,000 a
month." Okay, you go and look at all the
exit strategies and you make a
determination of which exit strategies
would make more money than the rent
payment and then you decide which way to
go and then you commit to the deal. You
don't commit to the deal and then figure
it out. You figure it out and then
commit to the deal, if that makes sense.
I I feel like that's a thing that a lot
of people get wrong though when
investing in real estate. If you look
at, you know, the average consumer,
especially, you know, someone in the
middle class, buying a house is a very
emotional investment. But if you want to
be successful when with investing is you
got to know the numbers. So, could you
kind of break that down for people of
like why it's so important to know the
numbers in order to do a deal? Oh my
gosh.
Um
it is so critical. I have seen people
that go they'll watch something on my
YouTube channel and they'll go, "Pace, I
got an email this morning. This is
great." Somebody watched my YouTube
video, they go, "Oh my gosh, I figured
out how to get this house under
contract. I've got this house has a
$3,000 monthly payment. I closed escrow,
now I'm the owner of the property.
What do I do with it?"
What? Did you miss Did you miss the
playlist where you have to know the
numbers?
And so, they go through I did a Zoom
with them early this morning
and I go, "Dude, let me help you. Oh my
gosh, let's get on a Zoom." And I take
the property and I went through all the
strategies and we found one strategy
that was going to work that makes him
like 50 bucks a month.
And I'm like, "Bro, you're freaking
lucky that we found one of them." It's
critical to know the numbers, right? Um
it's like buying milk. Are you going to
buy milk that is already expired on the
shelf? No.
You got to know the numbers. Look at the
milk carton and go, "Oh." In fact, when
I go buy milk,
I go in the back and I grab the one in
the furthest back and I go, "I want the
best expiration date." So, you got to do
the same thing in real estate. You got
to know the numbers before you buy the
thing. Yeah.
You know, a lot of the people in our
audience, we get DMs all the time,
usually young people, they're saying,
"I want to make money. I want to make
money. Can you help me make money?" And,
you know, off camera we talked a lot
about how certain you are in real
estate. It sounds that like when you
were doing construction, you said it
took you four years to finally go all in
on the on real estate.
wasn't real estate, it was my mindset.
Yes. Right? Could you could you kind of
break down, you know, as you as young,
up and coming, hungry, maybe not sure
what they want to do yet, maybe it's
crypto, maybe it's e-commerce, it's they
got all these white What's it called?
Shiny object syndrome coming at them.
Why is real estate the vehicle that a
young person should look at to get into
today? What's going to happen with
e-com?
What's going to happen with Bitcoin?
The answer is nobody knows.
What's going to happen with with real
estate? It's going to stay consistent.
It's going to go up.
It's never not gone up, ever, in the
history of the world it's never not gone
up. The history of the world, not the
last 100 years, not the last 1,000
years, the history of the world real
estate has been the thing that goes up
always. When people are like, "Oh, no,
it goes down, there was a crash." Look
at the crash of 2008.
We are way surpassed what that crash
was. So, even if people that crash the
house housing market crashed, all these
investors sold their properties. "Oh my
gosh." What if they just kept them?
What if they kept them and kept them
rent renting out? Right? So, real estate
the reason the part of the question is,
why real estate is the vehicle? Because
it's the only thing that is certain.
It is the only thing that is certain.
Even businesses. People are like, "Oh,
well, I'm going to start a business."
Great, are you sure that's certain? It's
not certain.
Your business could be disrupted by AI.
You know what will not be disrupted by
AI? People's place to live.
The food people need to eat, right?
People need a toilet to flush their dump
down, right? They're Like that's
physically something we cannot replace
with AI. So, housing is a guaranteed
thing that people need. So, I'm going
down the certain path. It might be a
little Here's the thing, you have to
learn some terminology.
Right? What's crazy to me is people will
go to college to become a doctor for 12
years. Then they have to be like an
understudy for four years. How much does
an average doctor make?
400 to 800 depending on what
Great, 400 to 8,000 800,000 dollars.
Plus you walk out of school with half a
million to a million dollars in debt and
12 years of your life lost with just
grinding out. Do you know what every
doctor wants to do when they get out of
when they start making money? Invest in
real estate. All of my doctor friends
that that give me money to invest for
them, they're all like, "Man, I wish I
would have skipped the whole medical
route." And I guess what? Took me 6
months to learn most of what I know
today. In fact In fact, Jordan, you're
brand new in the business, right? About
a year? Yeah, just a little less than
You could turn around and teach somebody
else how to do a deal right now. So, in
less than a year, you can go and make
half a million to a million dollars a
year in less than a year going the real
estate route, guaranteed for the rest of
your life. Why be a doctor? Why be an
engineer? You want to know why people
want to be doctor? So, they can
guarantee that they're going to have
enough income to survive. So, they're
going to the guaranteed route. If you're
going the guaranteed right route, it's
not Bitcoin, it's not e-com, it's not
any of that crap, it is real estate
100%. Every engineer wants to invest in
real estate. Every doctor wants to
invest in real estate. Everybody want
Andy Elliott, who teaches sales, wants
to invest in real estate. Why do
anything else? There's the There's a
saying, uh
concentration builds wealth and
diversification keeps it. And we we were
talking earlier about how you're not the
biggest fan of just you you pick your
industry and you just stay in that one
particular niche. You're a fan of
diversifying and doing other things. But
for a young entrepreneur, at what point
is it time to diversify within that
niche, within that industry, and kind of
break down that like that blueprint of
like how you, you know, your thoughts on
diversification within an industry?
Have you guys ever built something that
you're like waiting on somebody else on
Let's say you're building a website and
you're waiting for the web developer to
finish it. You ever done that? Yes.
Yeah.
You have stuff going on with Okay.
Welcome to every part of your business
for the rest of your life. You're always
going to be hurrying up and waiting.
Hurry up and waiting, right? You give
You delegate to somebody, "Hey, will you
build this website for us? Hey, will you
do this thing for us?" Takes 2 weeks, 2
months, sometimes a year.
What are you doing during that time
where you're waiting for the other
person? Guess what you're doing? You're
creating a second revenue stream. So, I
knew every time that I was waiting for
somebody to do the thing, I would then
create a second revenue streams, and I
always have 10 or 15 things that are
hurrying up and wait, hurry up and wait,
hurry up and wait. And while I'm waiting
over here, I'm building something over
here.
And so,
immediately, you should have two or
three things going on. People like, "Oh,
you should do one thing." Does Elon Musk
do one thing? No. He runs eight
billion-dollar companies.
Right. And probably And more. He's on
boards of hundreds of property things.
The dude is everywhere. So, when people
are like, "Oh, you should focus on one
thing." I hear, "You should be a bitch."
Like, only a little baby [ __ ] can focus
on one thing. Are you guys doing one
thing?
No. Cuz you ain't [ __ ] The reason
why people give that advice is because
the person they're giving the advice to,
they don't believe that person can
juggle more than one thing.
It's good advice for a [ __ ] It's bad
advice for badasses. If I told you guys,
"Hey guys, focus on just creating
content. Just focus on the YouTube
channel. Just focus on that one thing.
Don't do short-form content and
long-form content and a podcast and
don't build a community." Cuz that's too
much. I'm talking to the wrong crowd, am
I not? That's true. I'm not talking to
[ __ ] I'm talking to badasses. And
so, when people say, "Focus on one
thing." say, "Oh, they're talking to a
bitch."
Yeah, it's their own limiting beliefs.
Yeah. Right. So, I I actually was given
this advice one time, and this was This
was really hard, okay? When you're
younger, especially your guys' age,
people older than you that have more
success than you, and this is where like
the best one of the best lines of all
time is, "Don't listen to people who
have less money than you or The The
quote should be, "Don't listen to people
that have less money than you want to."
I was taking advice from people that are
worth $2 million when I was worth
$100,000 thinking that's the person I
should be taking advice from. No, I
don't want to be worth $2 million.
Therefore, I shouldn't take advice from
somebody worth $2 million. I should take
advice from people that are worth $100
million or more because that's where I
want to be.
And the people that are $100,000 or $100
million or more are saying, "Dude, you
got to have 15 kettles in the fire." The
person at $2 million was giving me
advice. This is about 7 8 years ago when
I was really starting to build like this
whole operation you guys saw. When we
were building this operation out, I had
a a mentor of mine incorrectly hired
this mentor.
The guy was worth maybe 5 10 million
bucks,
but at the time, I was like, "That's
really high level."
No, it wasn't really high level. It's
just higher level than me.
And he this dude This is a dude that
would go, "Pace, you got to focus on one
thing. You're doing too many things.
You're doing too many things."
And then, I become friends with Grant
Cardone.
And I'm at dinner with Grant Cardone.
And Grant Gar- Cardone says,
um he says to me, "The quickest way
to become a billionaire is to listen to
a billionaire."
Right? And he says, "Do you want to
become a mill- This No, this was his
advice. His advice was,
"You want to learn how to be a become a
billionaire? Stop taking advice from
millionaires. millionaires."
And I was like, "Oh my gosh." And then I
realized this guy that was my mentor at
the time would take an af- afternoon nap
every day at 2 2:00 to 4:00.
He literally had a hide-a-bed in his
office, and he'd take a nap every day.
And everything was like And he would
focus on the one thing.
I'm like, "That's why that guy's worth
$10 million."
$10 million ain't [ __ ] dude. Like,
gone.
Right? Most of these guys that you
interview, their houses worth $10
million.
So, I'm not going to take advice from
somebody worth $10 million. My minimum
barrier is $100 million or or higher.
Right? So, it's a different world, and
that was my mistake. I would listen to
people say, "Do one thing. Focus on one
thing." Okay.
Maybe for the first week,
focus on getting your YouTube channel up
and going. But then, when you're
hurrying up and waiting, now it's time
to get your IG going, and then build
your community, and build your thing,
and get another platform, and your
website. You You got to have five
different things going on at all times,
or else you're just sitting there
waiting half the time.
Never take advice from someone you
wouldn't trade places with.
100%. That's really hard, too. I You
know, it was interesting, too. Like,
somebody says to me a couple weeks ago,
I was at with Tony Robbins, Dean
Graziosi, Jim Kwik, a lot of really cool
people.
And somebody was telling a story about
if you ever think that you have big
problems in your life,
think about this mental practice in your
life.
What if all five of us in this room
took out all of our problems, everything
we're dealing with, and we threw them
all in the middle of the room.
But you couldn't tell what they were.
They were just
black boxes.
Okay? You pulled these black boxes of
all of our problems out, and they just
jump in a big pile.
And
whose problems would you switch your
problems with?
Think about it for a second.
There's people that have bigger problems
than you.
And I go, "No, no, no, I want my
problems." Cuz I know what people are
dealing with behind the scenes. The
older I get, the more I realize like
what people are dealing with behind the
scenes. I'm like, "I'm so grateful for
the problems I currently have. I'm just
going to focus" The only thing I focus
on, the only focus I actually give to
anything in my life is focusing on my
own problems.
I'm not focusing on anybody else's
problems. I'm not going, "Why is that
Why does that guy have a life I don't
have?" Dude,
you know how many people I would trade
my life with? Zero.
Cuz you don't know what's going on
behind the scenes, dude. Holy [ __ ] I
mean, look at P. Diddy.
What the freak is going on there? Yeah.
I would never exchange my life for
anybody else's. You don't know what
black boxes they have behind their
closet. So, I'm so grateful for the
problems that I have.
You You brought up the office earlier.
Basically, and and I like that you
brought up earlier that it's like, "Hey,
some people that we interview, you walk
in, it might just be like, huh, you
know, I I was expecting more in regards
to what's going on behind the scenes."
Oh, I guarantee you 80% of the people
you interview, it's like you're
expecting more. And you know, we walked
in here today, and I I'll keep it
honest. Like, we're very impressed with
all the different operations that are
going on. You can tell there's a lot of
moving pieces at work here. But you
know, it probably
uh didn't start that way. You had to
scale that up, scale all these teams up.
How did you know how did you know who to
bring in, who the right people to
partner with, and how did you scale your
company up with maybe a team of a few to
where it's at today? Okay, so the number
one thing wasn't even hiring. The number
one thing was partnering with somebody
was my integrator. Have you guys ever
read the book Rocket Fuel?
Phenomenal book. Okay, I would say that
you guys are all visionaries to a
certain degree. So, there's two types of
people in the world.
Visionaries and integrators, right?
Visionaries are the people that are like
the Andy Elliott. Andy Elliott ain't
doing [ __ ] in operations.
You know he's not operating anything. He
He's the face. He's the motivation. He's
the inspiration. He He attracts the
energy. That's his job. He's the
visionary. Same thing with me. And so,
when I was trying to do everything
myself, I'm like, "Man, why is
everything falling apart time?" It's
like, "Well, because when I'm over here
creating a new product, nobody's over
here handling the product I created last
week."
And so, I had um integrators. I Jordan
has been following me around the last
couple days. I bounce into people's
offices for like 10 minutes. I go, "Hey,
da da da, are you handling this? Are you
handling this?" Those are employees.
But I have partners that manage the
employees. So, I don't manage None of
those employees I manage. Not one of
them reports to me. So, I Number one, I
knew my personality by reading the book
Rocket Fuel, and I go, "Ooh, I know
exactly who I am."
And then the book says, "Go find your
integrator polar opposite." The person
who doesn't want to be on camera, the
person that doesn't want to be like the
person known. You And in fact, I'll
bring you like
Cody Sanchez came over to my office one
time, and we hung out. Love her. She's
amazing. You guys will have a fun time
filming with her.
Um and she comes over, she says, "Wow, I
didn't know you had um partners." I go,
"Yeah, they don't want to be on camera."
Right? Their his office is over here,
and he's running all of this stuff so I
can do the things that I need to do.
Create new products, inspire the team,
attract the talent, right? The people
that come to our team, they Google who I
am. Who, do I want to work for that
person? Or do I not? I repel some
people, but I attract other people,
right? And so, you need to read the book
Rocket Fuel and identify, are you an
integrator or are you a visionary?
And before you go scale a big team, you
have to get a partner. Nobody will be
successful without a partner. You
brought up how it's like 96% of
entrepreneurs don't ever delegate. What
was that statistic that you gave?
96% of entrepre- 96% of businesses in
the world
will never hit a million dollars a year
in revenue.
Think about that. What I do in 3 days,
they won't do it year. That's bonkers.
Why is that? Two reasons. One, they
don't have a a partner that's their
polar opposite that they can, you know,
get rid of their control freak nature.
And two, because they don't want to
split the pie, right? They want the
whole They want the whole grape. I want
half the watermelon. And that And that's
about I want the whole grape. I want to
keep really small and I want to control
everything. I want to be in charge. I
want to be da da da.
I'm like, that's where I was in my 20s
until I read Rockefeller. I was like,
"Oh [ __ ] I was doing it wrong the whole
time." Thank goodness for knowledge,
dude. Oh my gosh, thank goodness for
like mentors and and and education. And
I started joining masterminds and and
you know, paying money to get in the
right rooms around the right people with
the right answers that had gone through
the [ __ ] And then I found good
partners. And the partner's like, "Oh my
gosh, you want to be on camera? And you
like want people to see you? Dude, I
don't want to do any of that. Can I just
run the operation?" Oh dude, now I'm
onto something. Then you start hiring
good people.
And when you start hiring good people,
that's a muscle you have to flex, right?
Just like, you know, you you work out,
right?
What do you have to do first in order to
break to build muscle? You have to break
down your muscle, right? Will your
muscle grow without you breaking it down
and destroying it?
No. So, there's a skill in acquiring
talent, and it's a muscle that you have
to develop by building it up by failing.
You have to go hire 10 people, keep one,
nine get fired or they quit cuz you put
them in the wrong position because you
suck at hiring.
And then you look back at those nine and
go, "Man, I really screwed up on those
nine. What did I do wrong?" Okay, then 6
months later you're like, "We'll hire 10
people, keep two."
And you get better. And now we're at a
point where when we hire 10 people, we
keep nine.
But it's because we built the muscle and
we went through the [ __ ] that nobody
else is willing to go through. So, 96%
of entrepreneurs will never do a million
dollars a year in revenue because of
those two things. Don't get a partner
and don't hire properly. And I think
it's undervalued. People say, "What's
the most important resource of any
business?" It's the human resource.
People. Human capital, man.
The army, the culture, all of these
things. I mean, look at look I mean,
Jordan's a basketball guy, but you look
at like a basketball team and when
basketball teams they win the
championship,
but then one player gets switched out on
that team because now his contract's up
and he goes to get more money. They have
to basically rebuild that whole entire
team because the dynamic of the culture
changed.
Holy crap. Well, dude, it's What about
the other players? They're all amazing.
The other 14 players How many people on
a basketball team?
12. Cool. The other 11 players are the
same.
Well, yeah, but that one person changed
the whole dynamic and the frequency and
the and and all of that stuff on the
whole team. You have to rebuild it. So,
it's the same thing here. We might have
the same product, but one of our key
people leaves or decides to build their
own business because we didn't take care
of them or what what have you.
Dude, I spend 80% of my day not even
thinking about my actual product. I
think about my
internal culture and the people inside
of it because that ultimately drives the
product forward. And it's often said,
"It's not what you know, it's who you
know."
And I want you to break that down. What
is Why is proximity so important?
Proximity is important because, you
know, I had a friend of mine in in high
school come in and hung out with me
about a month ago.
We go to dinner and he's telling me all
his problems.
And these are like little baby problems.
Like, "Oh, I have this thing going on. I
got this thing. I got $200,000 in debt."
I'm like, "Bro, I got $400 in debt. What
like this is your this"
I leave this dinner second-guessing why
I deserve to have money.
What's going on? Like, this was a guy
I've always looked up to. What And I
start get Bro, we are just the summation
of the people we hang out with, right?
Your molecule molecules, I'm molecules,
they vibrate together.
And if you're not around people with the
right frequency, a higher level
frequency, you slow down. And so, this
guy, I'm driving home from this dinner
and I'm second-guessing it. I go to my
wife and I tell my wife,
"Babe, like
I don't think I deserve all the things I
deserve. I got to slow down. I got to be
more conservative. I got My wife's like,
"What happened to you?
Who have you been talking to?" I was
like, "Oh [ __ ] you're right."
But that didn't wear off for a week. And
it wasn't until I went and hung out with
um you know, the gentleman who invented
um Undercover Billionaire, Mr. Sterns.
And I go to his hundred million dollar
home. He has a private dinner.
He spends 80 grand on the flower
arrangement for 60 people. Spends $1,200
per person on a flower arrangement in
front of us that are house. Like, that
guy's balling out.
You walk in his house, he's got a part
of the Titanic in his foyer.
This is a different level, right? I
leave that dinner wow, I deserve the
world. I can go hire more people. I can
I can take over and I can dominate and I
can recreate and I can do this and do
that.
And it's the stories that you get to
hear from these people and the frequency
that you feel their vibration. You guys
feel it? When you're around high-level
entrepreneurs, you're like, "Damn, these
guys are certain of themselves. Why am I
not certain of myself? They're demanding
things for themselves. Why am I not
demanding thing" It dude, it's
everything.
Anytime you feel like a little [ __ ]
which we all do at times, get around
somebody that is not a [ __ ]
And all your problems go away.
When people go, "I'm stuck. I don't know
what to do. I'm you know, that's
something I hear a lot for like young
dudes. They go, "I'm I just feel stuck.
I want to start, but I can't I can't."
I'm like, "Who's your Who's the last
five people you hung out with?" "My
girlfriend." Oh, she ain't helping [ __ ]
We already know that, okay? Um okay, I
hung out with my family. Okay, are they
making money? No.
Okay, I have a couple of buddies from
high school. I'm hanging out with them.
But then you go home and you're hanging
out on YouTube and you're doing
whatever. YouTube is to inspire you and
remind you to get your ass out of your
house. And can you kill a deer inside
the cave?
No, you got to get your ass out of the
cave and go kill the deer. And then you
drag the the deer back to the cave,
right? So, so many people are in their
little cave
thinking, "I'm going to one day I'm
going to get out there. I'm going to get
a deer." How are you going to get a deer
watching YouTube? YouTube will tell you
to get your ass out and remind you, but
you still got to go out and get around
other other hunters that know where the
deer are. We've been talking about
proximity and one of the things that
I've noticed about some of the most
successful people that we've met that
we've interviewed is that they're they
never get comfortable. They never get
satisfied. They could be running a big
nine-figure company, netting eight
figures a year, and and they're set for
life. They're chilling.
Somebody like you who's created an
abundance of wealth, right? You know,
generating hundreds of millions of
dollars throughout your career. What is
it that keeps you going? Keeps you
feeling always trying to achieve new
levels and heights? Is it just the
circle that you're around or like is it
just something innate that you're just
like, "I'm I'm never satisfied." Have
you ever built something? Like a
birdhouse, mowed a lawn, and seen like
something you did?
And be like, "I am a god."
You know, like whether it's mowing a
lawn or make building a fort, doing
whatever. Like getting the satisfaction
of seeing a seed you plant produce a
fruit is the most addictive thing on the
planet Earth.
And so, what most people do is they
plant the seed.
Okay, I'm going to start a business.
They water it one time. They show up for
two or three days. And then they start
yelling AT THE SEED, "WHY ARE YOU NOT
GROWING? F THIS. I'm out." And they
leave.
Meanwhile, guys like me are like, "I'm
going to be patient. Somebody told me to
be patient. I'm going to be patient."
Then you see this thing sprout up.
Oh my gosh. Then you see that tree
sprout up and you oh
Wait, I should go get another seed.
Holy [ __ ] this works.
Boom boom boom boom. Next thing you
know, you got an orchard. And people are
like,
"Why are you successful?"
Cuz I didn't yell at the seed. I waited
for it to germinate. I kept watering it.
I kept doing the thing. And once I see
the thing pop up through the the So,
it's the same thing. The first dollar
you make in business, the first time
somebody pays you, the first time
somebody buys a product from you, go
Oh my gosh, this works. And now you're
addicted.
You're addicted. And most people can't
get through the phase of waiting for the
seed to sprout up the little stock.
That's it.
Impatient pieces of [ __ ]
I've been there, too. I know the feeling
of like, "Wait, I've been working on
this for 3 months." What, bro? 3 months?
You know, and I think in your young age
you have an advantage. You have more
energy. You have all these great things
about you. But the one thing you have
not learned is that life is actually
really long.
And you think life is short. And you
guys you're 25, you're 24, 21?
25, 24. Okay. You think you're so effing
old. You think you're so old.
And what's funny is like I'm 41 and now
I realize how long life is. I realize
how young I am.
And I also would never go back to 25.
You want to know why? Because at 25, I
was conflicted with self-esteem issues
and wondering what path to take, my lack
of patience. Bro, I got patience.
I can plant a hundred seeds and wait and
I'll just keep watering them shits.
Somebody at 22 years old is like I put
They'll plant a seed. You can give them
the effing seed. You can give them the
effing water. And they'll sit there for
like 14 minutes and go, "This doesn't
work. I'm out."
That's shiny object syndrome. People are
like, "Oh, you're jumping from this to
that." No.
If I've got two seeds in the in the
ground, one business over here and one
business over here, and I water this one
day, and I go over here and I water this
one day, and I go back and I'm watering
them appropriately, and I'm going back
and forth, that's not shiny object
syndrome. That's called being a business
owner. What shiny object syndrome is is
that I have multiple seeds in the
ground. I water them once or twice, and
then I abandon them because of the lack
of patience to see them through. That's
shiny object syndrome. Yeah, that's a
bar right there. Uh one thing that I did
want to touch on with you is, you know,
earlier I heard you say that uh you
know, your net worth you five x'd it
because of the personal brand that
you've built. For someone that's
up-and-coming right now, kind of, you
know, obviously it's might be a lot
easier to build a personal brand after
you've accumulated a lot of success.
What's your recommendation to someone
that's up-and-coming? Should they start
a personal brand and, you know, how how
should they grow it to the size that
you've been able to build yours? Here's
a Here, let me ask you a question.
Should people
know you? That's a better question.
Should people know you? If if if if
people don't know you, they can't flow
you. That's right. Okay. So, how do
people get to know you in 2024 and 2025?
You got to put yourself out there
through content. Okay.
So, we answered the question. What I see
a lot of people is they'll go, "Man, I'm
really struggling with my business."
Cool, what's your Instagram?
Never made a post on Instagram. I go,
"Bro, you ain't nothing but a bitch."
You know you're you know the solution,
right? But you want to complain that you
haven't done it it's like bro, I can't
even have this conversation with you. We
talked about this outside.
Let's say that all three all three of
you I go to you three amigos and I go
all right guys
I got this amazing idea for a hamburger
joint.
And I'm a world-renowned chef like I'm
the greatest burger joint on the planet
Earth. I want to start my own thing. I'm
going to break away from where I'm
working. I got this recipe it's
unbelievable. We're going to have the
line out the freaking door.
Will you guys invest in me?
You guys go yeah, hell yeah, we'll
invest in you. Okay, cool.
A month later I'm up and opera you guys
give me a couple hundred thousand bucks.
I go build the thing 30 days. We're not
making a hamburger, right? We're putting
the [ __ ] together in the restaurant.
Cool.
Hire a couple employees.
The next month you would expect that
we'd have some revenue, right?
Cool.
So I send you a P&L. I send you a profit
and loss statement. I send you an email
I go all right. Hey three amigos haven't
generated any money, but I'm really
hopeful that people are going to start
knowing that we're here.
And you're like all right guys, you
know, there's something weird going on.
Let's drive down to the burger joint and
let's just go try this burger. Let's see
if Pace is really as good as he says.
You come down to the burger joint. You
see the address, but you're like looking
around you're like
where's the freaking door? Where's the
building?
And you call me you go bro, where is the
building? We we're all we see is a big
white building there's a bunch of doors
on it like a big strip mall. We don't
know which one is yours. Like it says
the address is here. And I walk out of
an unmarked door
with no signage, no stickers, no nothing
on it. I go guys, we're in here. Come on
in here.
And I then hand you a burger, the best
fries you've ever had a root beer float
maybe if you're into that.
Like this is the damn best thing on
planet Earth.
Why is it not selling? They just don't
know you're there. Nobody knows I'm
there. So would you want to fire me as
your partner if I didn't even put you
some of your money to put a sign on the
door? Yes. Yeah.
What about um making sure I have a sign
spinner on the corner saying burgers
burgers burgers burgers. Would that be
irresponsible for me to not have that
[ __ ] It would be. Yeah. Okay, so how is
that any different than social media?
How is that any different than putting
myself out there? The modern day door
sign of your burger joint is your
YouTube channel. It's your Instagram.
It's your Facebook. It's your LinkedIn.
That's my sign on the door letting you
know I'm the best burger maker on planet
Earth and here's proof of it on on this
platform.
How can people follow you if they don't
know you?
It's irresponsible.
It's a [ __ ] move. You'd fire me. Yeah.
Would. So the people out there like I'm
afraid of starting my personal brand.
Okay, great. Who do you think anybody's
going to invest in your idea? Cuz you
don't believe in yourself. If you don't
believe in yourself then how is somebody
else going to believe in you?
Well, cuz I have the best burger. People
should invest in me cuz I have the best
product. So I my big thing with personal
brand was
there was no at the time there was no
such thing as an agency.
Right? And I just here here are my two
best employees my two thumbs.
So I started on Instagram. I then was
like oh I'm on YouTube a lot. I love
YouTube. Like I'm I'll start my YouTube
channel.
And I started myself. I started hiring
people and then agencies came out I was
like man, I wish I had that cheat code.
I think a lot of people that are like I
don't know who to hire. I don't know
what to do first. I think they should
just hire an agency. Spend the money.
And I don't know what it cost to have
you know have an agency do your stuff.
I'm sure there's different packages, but
I would look at and go if I'm spending
let's say five grand a month on a
package
will that not generate me $50,000 extra
in revenue because more people know I'm
there?
Or better yet, what if the social media
never brings me a single lead?
But what it does is the leads I already
have now see me as more credible and my
close rate goes way up.
It's not a necessarily I'm just getting
more leads. It's the credibility that
you actually believed in yourself.
It's the psychological effect of like
damn this guy doesn't believe in himself
doesn't even have a brand.
Why would I buy a product from you?
Would you buy sales training from Andy
Elliott if he didn't have a good brand?
No. No, you'd buy it from any other
idiot on the you know how many sales
trainers are on the planet?
Hundreds.
Thousands. Right, but do we know who
they are? No. No, cuz they're little
[ __ ]
And they don't we don't know who they
are cuz they don't believe in
themselves. So if I if you don't believe
in yourself, why would I hire you as a
sales trainer?
That's stupid.
So is Andy Elliott the best sales
trainer on the planet?
Probably. For all we know he is.
Right? So why did McDonald's dominate
for so long? Cuz they were the only ones
that had a golden arch.
Then other people are like oh [ __ ]
they're doing something right.
We should start putting our signs high
up and if people will emulate and that's
what's going on right now. So
Andy Elliott is the best sales trainer
on planet Earth because
people know who he is.
Right?
that attention. Boom. Yeah.
How long have you been an entrepreneur
now?
Since the second I came out of the womb
bro. I was born for this [ __ ] Um but
to to be honest um
an entrepreneur people are like you
know, the first dollar I made on my own
was when I was 14. I was painting
people's garage floors. It's something I
learned from my my father. So I would do
that on Saturdays.
Um so young young age
but I would say like really seriously
being in business I was 22. Yeah.
So you've been in entrepreneurship for a
long time and as we all know there's
seasons, you know, sometimes things are
going really well. You're firing all
cylinders and other times things aren't
really going so hot.
And I'm I'm just curious for maybe
someone who's going through a hard time
right now. What would be your advice to
them for maybe just getting out of the
mud and just and just turning things
around? Everything that I can tell you
about let's say real estate for example.
Give you two real quick
um answers to that. So let's say real
estate.
When I buy a house
am I really is the main thing I'm going
after is the house? No.
The main thing I'm going after is the
relationships I get from it, the
resources I get from it, and the skill
sets I get I got I became a better
closer. Can anybody take that away from
me?
No. What about the relationship with the
escrow officer or the agent or whoever I
worked with on that deal? Can anybody
take that relationship from me?
No, but what I could what I maybe I sell
that house at what some point, but what
I will never lose are the resources the
relationships and the skill sets I
acquired from that. And so a lot of
times people forget that these little
micro skills and micro relationships you
accumulate over a long period of time,
they compound and you can't you don't
see them. And so a lot of people are
like man, I'm not growing as fast as I
did when I first launched the business
like dude, you're missing out on all the
other things. There's a book called the
gap and the gain.
And most people think in the gap. I'm
missing something. Something's not going
right versus gosh damn, look at all
these cool things that are happening.
Right? Switch that thinking and you'll
never really go through that moment of
wow, things aren't going my way cuz
you're accumulating relationship skill
sets and resources the even if your
business goes like this, are you not
acquiring skill sets on how to handle
stress and pressure?
So that's a good thing, right? So that
when things go back up, you're actually
better fit for that upward trend, right?
Okay, I would also sit tell tell you
that your personal income will never
outpace your personal development. So a
lot of people are like oh my gosh,
things aren't perfect cuz I cuz you
ain't perfect [ __ ] Work on yourself.
Read some books. Go hang out with cool
people. Stop complaining. The universe
pushed you down because you got up to a
level that you weren't fit for and the
universe pushed you back down. I still
get those moments. I'm like okay, must
need to work on myself. Okay?
Another thing I would look at too is
that there's seasons in life. Okay?
Do we expect a tree to have its leaves
all year round? No.
Okay, so an apple tree produces apples
how many times a year?
One time a year.
Orange trees, how many times does the
orange tree produce oranges? One time a
year.
So do I look at an orange tree when it
doesn't have oranges on it go man,
that's a messed up worthless piece of
[ __ ] tree? No.
No, I just know when it's producing and
I know when it's not it's digging its
roots deeper. And so when your business
is not producing highly
dig your roots deeper. Get a better
understanding of whatever your industry
is. Go hang out with your competitors.
Become friends with your competitors.
Dig your roots deeper into your industry
and understand it and wait for the next
the next production of the next set of
oranges so to speak. But you don't see
that, right? That's the problem is the
roots are going down. Nobody sees that.
It's that quiet work that you got to do
behind the scenes. Everybody wants to be
like I got all the oranges on my tree.
Look at me. I got the nice car. I've got
the all the all the money. Meanwhile the
smart people are digging their roots
deeper and deeper and deeper, but nobody
sees that.
Nobody sees that and so it's not fun.
Especially in the social media age. This
is the bad part to branding. Is the bad
part of branding is everybody's like get
out there and let everybody know what
you're doing.
Meanwhile you forget to dig your roots
deeper. So when you're not producing or
the algorithm changes or something else
changes, you're pissed off cuz now the
oranges aren't on the tree anymore,
right? So there's a delicate balance of
like I need to make sure I'm time
blocking personal development. I'm going
to mentorships. I'm paying for
education. The modern day college is
mentorships.
That's the modern day college. I'm going
to go to this professor. You ever have a
professor or like somebody in high
school you're like man, this guy is a
freaking bore. Yes.
Yeah. Yes. Do you have any teachers that
you look back on right now you're like I
like that teacher, but I actually didn't
learn [ __ ] from that person. Of course.
Yeah. Absolutely. girl in that class
that I kept going to school for. We have
the luxury now to go I want to learn
directly from that person and I'm going
to pay one fraction of a college degree
to go get that knowledge and be around
that person. So that's digging the roots
deeper. Go get the like specific
knowledge. Like Jordan he's one of my
students, but also Jordan is going and
getting educated from another gentleman
right now. I'm like dude, that's dope.
That's a that thing is freaking that's a
class I would want to take. It's
constantly looking for classes and
mentors that are badass at whatever the
thing is that you want to be good at.
Digging your roots deeper. I was going
to ask you from your perspective, what
are some of those traits that you're
seeing right now in younger people that
tells you this person's attractive to
money. You know, you talked about when
you were growing up when you were coming
up you kind of had that innate work you
had that innate work ethic in you,
right? Which a lot of people I would say
is missing in our generation, right? We
talked about how there's a lot of
entitlement, a lack of patience and a
lot of the sense, but what are some of
those traits that you're seeing Number
one, number one showing up obvious.
Number two, consistency obvious. One
that's not so obvious is are you
receiving information or are you
creating opportunities? Here's what I
mean by that. I have a new employee
named Nathan Barnes. Just hired him
literally like 2 weeks ago. He's 22
years old. So, he's a little bit older
than you, okay?
And I hired this guy just to be like my
handyman in the morning doing all the
things that I'm keep putting off. I'm
like, "Gosh damn it, I can't put this
stuff off anymore. I got to hire
somebody to do this stuff." I keep
saying I'm going to do it. My wife is
like, "When are you going to do the
thing?" I'm going to hire somebody to do
the thing.
So, I hire Nathan in the mornings to do
that and then the afternoon he's in my
lending business. Okay?
So, what Nathan does
is he can't get a hold of me sometimes.
I'm hanging out with you guys. I'm
running a meeting or I'm doing whatever.
Nathan can't get a hold of me. What does
he do?
Does he sit on his hands and go, "I'm
just going to wait until somebody tells
me what to do?"
No. That's 99% of kids nowadays are
like, "I'm just going to wait until you
tell me what to do."
When Nathan does he goes he texts my
wife. He texts this person. Texts this
person on my team. "Hey, what can I do
for you right now? I can't get a hold of
Pace, but I don't want to just sit here
doing nothing. How can I provide values
to everybody else in the organization to
until Pace is ready to talk to me?" That
is like one of the most missing things
in most Most people are receiving.
People in the 9-9 to 5 mentality, you
guys are not the 9 to 5 mentality. You
are repulsed by it. But the people in 9
to 5 mentality, they like being told
what to do. And when to do it. And when
to clock in and when to clock out and
what time You imagine somebody telling
you when you could have lunch?
Hell no. No. So
And and and I'll add on to that. It's
like once you kind of figure out a way
to like do your own thing and for
yourself, you know that you can never go
back to that. And and what it is is it's
a prison of the mind. And people can't
get past the understanding. Why? What's
the biggest reasons why people can't get
past the 9 to 5 mentality?
Because they're hanging out with other 9
to 5 people.
Oh my god.
It's simple. It's simple. They don't
they don't have anyone checking them.
Man, I can't fig- Pace, we I just can't
figure out how to break through. You You
will hang out with a bunch of losers.
And I in my DMs somebody will DM me and
go, "Man, I just can't I'm stuck." I go,
"You're not stuck. You have a bunch of
[ __ ] ass friends."
And and they're like, "Man, why you got
to be so rude?" I go, "Cuz nobody else
has been rude to you. You need somebody
yell at you."
And um you know, whether it's your
church That's the other thing too.
People will hold on to their religion.
I'm religious.
But you'll hold on to your religion and
you'll go
"But my pastor told me this and my my
pastor told me to be humble."
"My pastor told me to play it you know,
play it small and not do this and not be
you know, big and loud and whatever."
Okay, great.
Awesome. Is your pastor Is your pastor
live the life that you want? Do you want
to be a pastor?
No, hell no. I would not want to be a
pastor. Maybe there's aspects of that,
but people will get like in love with
their father's path, in love with their
pastor's path, in love with somebody
else's path. And And I think up until
you're like 16, 17 years old you need
that. You need some guidance. But at
some point you have to become your own
man.
And most people don't get past that.
Guys, that's a wrap on today's episode.
I think that was an absolute masterclass
on business.
a [ __ ]
Yes. Don't be a [ __ ]
Last advice?
Any last advice to the younger
generation? We can leave them with you
know, you you've given them some
phenomenal nuggets to take from here,
you know, but if you could leave them
with one last message that you give to
the younger generation, man. Like I
said, they want to get Pace Morby rich
in today's world. Give them some game.
Okay, do an audit of your five closest
friends. You've probably heard this
before, but do an audit of your five
closest friends, the people you spend
the most time with. Find out how much
money they make. Add it all up, all five
of their incomes and then divide it by
five and guess what? That's how much
money you're worth. It's access to
capital. It's It's Well, it's not just
access to capital. It's the mentality of
all the free like when four of us are
all together, there's a frequency going
through all of us right now that you're
like, are you a little bit more I'm a
little bit more motivated hanging out
with you guys.
And that's what iron should sharpen
iron, right? And the problem is most of
these guys have five friends that
they're hanging out with that are just
losers going to jobs talking about, you
know, whatever they're talking about.
I I don't know who won the the football
sports uh
what do you call it? Super Bowl? I don't
know who won the Super Bowl.
I'm not talking about those things. I do
know who won the Masters. I love the
Masters. But But most of the people that
are out there, they have five friends
that they are comfortable with and none
of those five friends are making money.
So, I would take an audit of your five
friends. I call it your
board of advisors. The five people you
hang out with the most are called your
four your board of advisors. So, think
about that. Who are your board of
advisors? Oh, it's my mom. It's my dad.
It's my sister. It's my friend from work
and it's my friend from high school.
That's That's your board of advisors?
You know what I'm saying?
By the way, I'm not talking to you. I'm
talking to myself from 15 years ago.
Like I I did the same thing. Like I went
to work, came home. The only person I
was talking to the iron that I was
waiting to sharpen me, the other iron
was my wife and my dad and my mom. Guess
what? Then that's the life I'm going to
live. So, you want to be worth millions
and millions of dollars, get into a room
with people that are worth millions and
millions of dollars. That's a wrap on
today's episode. Be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content on the way
very soon. Click the link in the
description below to subscribe to the
Hard Knocks newsletter. We're sending
out weekly updates, insights, and
lessons from the world's top
entrepreneurs and business owners. Pace,
thank you so much for having us out
today.
Yeah, boys. Virginia Virginia's for
lovers, guys. Later. for tuning in.
Where can everybody find you? Go to my
YouTube channel. We do a YouTube video
every single day. You guys saw my big
team out here. We're cranking out. We
spend $2,000 per YouTube video to put it
out there. So, I spend 60 grand a month
putting stuff out on the YouTube channel
all for free. I break down houses,
addresses. A lot of the stuff that like
when I say I bought an apartment
building with no cash, no credit, no
credentials, people are like, "That's
bull crap." Give you the address. I'll
show you exactly what I did. I'll show
you the paperwork. I'll show you all the
things. So, go to my YouTube channel. Um
it's a lot. It will overwhelm you, but
you if you're not overwhelmed, you're
not growing. So, go on my YouTube
channel. Go get overwhelmed. Pace Morby
all platforms. Everybody tap in. We'll
see you guys in the next video. Later,
guys.