It's time to stop treating every setup
like they're equal. Some trades give us rare windows where the checks in favor
line up so perfectly that being conservative is actually our biggest
risk. Like the recent parabolic blowoffs in gold and silver and even FSLY
earnings today. In these trades, the edge isn't just present, it's
overwhelming. There are other trades that have edge that we should be taking,
but they're just normal trades. These trades are about quality control. The
most undertalked about part of trading is the value of grading your setups
correctly. In fact, I'd argue it's the whole game. Today, we're breaking down
the mechanics of A+ trades and why your ability to recognize them is the
difference between spinning your wheels and scaling your account. Welcome to the
Trading Floor Podcast, episode 10. I'm Tim Beldin here with Garrett Dryen and
our guy Kurt behind the scenes. So Garrett, why is grading setups
important to you? >> All right. Well, first of all,
like I think I think that it it is important to everybody whether they
realize it or not. And then once you realize that, you can take it to the
max, which is like kind of where it should be because everyone knows how to
pass on a trade, >> right? And like you said, this is this
is not talked about. Everyone talks about entries
>> and maybe exits, right? What stocks to buy, what stocks to sell.
>> We don't talk a lot about this trade is way better than this trade. I'm risking
twice as much on this trade than I am on this trade, right?
And you said it's the whole game now. Everyone knows how to pass on a trade.
To me, that's one end of the spectrum. That's zero risk. Right. And then we
have our A+ trades, A++ trades like you just described. They're the magnitude of
these trades is off the charts. There's tons of edge there. It's a rare
occurrence. It's a special situation where you want to be able to push it.
And there are various ways to push it, which I'd love to get into, but those
are the two ends of the spectrum. So, not taking the trade is actually a way
to risk zero, right? And then you have the maximum amount that you're willing
to risk, and that would be your A+ trade.
But now there are all these trades in between, right? Like A, B, C, A minus,
however you want to call it, however you want to categorize it for yourself. But
that's where we like to kind of live and lay out the groundwork for all of these
trades, all of these different risk levels, and then get really good at
grading these setups because the risk that we put forth on these trades really
decides the end of the month how we did. And I like how you think of it in terms
of a sliding scale versus just taking a trade or not taking a trade because
passing is just risking zero allocation. >> Absolutely. Like you can take every
trade. You just take some with zero risk, right? It's easy.
>> And we say all the time, you know, passing on a trade is a trade in itself.
>> Yeah. 100%. So, I I actually want to I brought a slide that I'd love to show
you, Tim, that you've seen it before, but um it's kind of it's something we've
been doing for a while that that I tried to kind of put into I tried to I tried
to visualize this the best I could, right? And this is something our team
uses. This is a risk system that that we've come up with. Now, not everyone
has to use the same risk system, and I would say everyone should be catered to
themselves. The key here is that we have different grades, right? You can see
there on the on the x- axis on the left, A plus, A, A minus, B, C. We've got
different grades. And each of those trades
really means a number of different things. And I I tried my best to sort of
encapsulate that in this chart to kind of sum up a lot of the work that we've
done in the past and that we've been doing recently in terms of defining
these things because I think this is so important. At least I know it is for my
training and it's something I'm I'm still working on all the time, right?
Because like once you have edge, it's like all about this. This is the whole
like you said, this is the whole game. This is what separates those huge months
from like a pretty normal month, right? Um, and this is our main focus for the
entire year. Like even going back to our last monthly review, this is what we are
honing in on this year. >> Do you want to sit in on all of our
daily and weekly in-house trader meetings? There's no bigger edge retail
traders can get. Visit smbtradingfloor.com
to learn more. >> A lot of people that I talk to risk the
same amount on every trade. And look, there's nothing wrong with that.
Especially, I think like when you're just cutting your teeth and you're
getting into it and and you really are unable to separate these different
grades out, like if you can't identify the difference, like there's no reason
in altering your risk, right? But soon as you start to gain edge and you've got
a playbook and you understand those different plays and the variables that
go into them that makes one trade better than the other, like we really have to
start thinking about what is our tier for this trade? What's our risk tier for
this trade? And it's like, how do we do that? Well, like at a lot of a lot of
prop firms, like we'll have like a daily stop, daily risk limit, right? It's the
amount we're allowed to lose in a day. We might have a weekly risk limit, a
monthly risk limit. And for a lot of people, they're trading based on maybe a
percentage of their account. I would still like recommend having a risk limit
because it does two things. It a gives us guard rails, right? So, if we're
trading in an environment that we're either like not seeing well or maybe
it's just a really unfavorable environment, we're not just pounding our
head against the wall and drawing down and drawing down and drawing down.
there's a way to kind of stop and say, "Okay, I hit my wrist for the day. Cool
it. Clearly, we're not seeing things well. Let's come back tomorrow." Um, but
the other thing is that it allows us to scale. It's actually an instrument for
us to grow. And that's like more of sort of the the point today that that I want
to make with this is like you can see at the bottom left of the chart, Tim say it
just says max risk a thousand. So, this is just a hypothetical amount, but let's
just say our max risk limit for each day is $1,000. Like, can't lose more than a
thousand. Now, we have a benchmark where we can take every trade that we take and
risk a certain percentage of that particular risk limit. And when we just
when we're trading really well and we want to grow and we want to start
risking more, we don't have to think now about, oh, I got to risk more on this
trade. Oh my god, I gotta I gotta like I gotta push it more or something like
that. It's like no, it's you know what? It's the same percentage of my max risk.
It's the same trade I took yesterday. My max risk just changed. So on the left we
have the percent max which is for each of these trades and this is different
for everybody. This is just a particular process that we use with you know with
our joint accounts and stuff like that. And that represents the percentage of
our max risk that we will be allowed to get up to on one of these trades. And
and if everything aligns and we actually get that entry where we can really push
it, then that's really like the risk that we should be taking on these
trades. And then within that, like throughout this this graph that I
created, all the other columns are just trying to describe things about these
trades that are really quick and easy and simple so that we can associate
these trades with these grades. >> And that's a great point you're making
because if you just increase your daily stop to 2K on your A+ trades, instead of
taking 800, you're taking 1,600. And it's not like you're being quote unquote
bigger in your A+ where it should feel uncomfortable. It's 80%. Still 80%.
>> Yeah. And that that's something Dr. s told me like a while back like he kind
of like I you know when I was talking to him when I was like starting out we were
going through this and and kind of building this process
like that's one of the things that he said to me that really stuck with me
where it's like when you're growing and you're trading bigger and you're you're
performing well so you want to step up to the next level like you really
shouldn't be thinking differently because that's all that's all of a
sudden changing what you're doing right right you got there for a certain reason
you you really don't want to change anything. You just want to risk more.
And so if you start changing your psychology thinking I got to press it
more, then that that that can do a weird subtle thing in your head where you
might start trading differently. So his suggestion is
keep it the same percentage of your max risk. Raise that max risk, but
psychologically just think I'm I'm just risking 20% right now. Like the same 20%
that I risked yesterday. It shouldn't feel any different. And that's it's just
a little mental trick to to be able to scale up.
>> And I think we might end up talking about this because I I've been wanting
to talk about it. On the flip side, it's you're risking bigger and you might get
gunshy because you're like, "How could I get just this risk in one entry?" And
again, it's the same percentage. >> Yeah. Exactly. And it's the same
percentage. And so, so I mean my my whole focus right now and and just so
far this year like we all have yearly goals is is nailing these grades. Like
that's the only thing I care about when I'm trading. And I think sometimes like
for me, I know we've talked about this for a lot of people. It's really
beneficial to keep your goals like super targeted and like very specific rather
than having like 10 trading goals where you kind of achieve none of them because
it's like too hard to focus on all of them at once.
every every day I come in, I'm just like, "Okay, I just want to get the
grading right. That's it. That's that's how I decide if I did well that day or
not." It's the only thing I'm thinking about when I go to bed at night. That's
what I'm thinking about. I wake up >> that's my DRC every day.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Because I mean that that to me this this really is like the
curve. You know what I mean? like this is where like I know that if I can
improve in this area like I can get to the next level and like you know we have
improved in this area but I think there's there's a there's another level
here um and this is why we've been focusing so much on it.
>> Garrett I have a question because I'm not seeing any checks in favor or
specific entry criteria in this. So you want to just take me through kind of
what you are saying with the opportunity profile and gut feel columns?
>> Yeah. So the reason I did that is because like first of all we all have
different playbooks and like a lot of us will have most of us will have multiple
playbooks right and every play has different criteria for
what might constitute an A+ trade or B trade right variables that go into those
could be volume could be the catalyst could be the market environment like all
these different things these things that in the bionic trader meetings inside
Access we break down and work on quantifying right so that we can
actually get better at this Would you like to gain the biggest edge a retail
trader can get? All of our daily and weekly in-house trader meetings are now
available to you. Just head over to smbtrainingfloor.com
to find out more. >> What we're doing here in this chart is
trying to simplify it because this chart is playbook agnostic, right? So, we're
not getting into specifics in terms of variables. We're trying to really talk
about like how we're supposed to act when we see a trade like this. How are
we supposed to feel? How often does it show up? How special is this trade?
Because these are all like mental cues that can sometimes, in my opinion, like
get us to the grade much quicker because you know how it is. Like you're trading
a a play and it's not necessarily like a what do they call like paint by numbers
or by the book or black and white. like black and white. Yeah.
>> Um where like you have your variables that matter to the play that you know if
all are present theoretically it would constitute an A+ setup but nothing is
never ex nothing is exactly the same all the time. So you might have a couple
variables that are extremely amazing and then it might be missing a few or you
might have all of them in kind of a normal way. Right? So there's there's a
little bit of a um feel there in terms of like when you're dissecting your the
play that's in front of you and you're thinking about the market environment
and and the volume and the price action and and everything that might go into
your play. Um it's not necessarily just like a a black and white formula that
outputs a grade, right? So I didn't want to pigeon hole that too much because I'm
really trying to think like bigger picture. So opportunity profile. So this
is just sort of describing the magnitude of the play, right? So obviously like
exceptional outlier for an A+ trade, trade of the quarter. And that's really
the mental cue for me. It's like when I'm seeing an A+ trade, I'm thinking to
myself like could this be the trade of the quarter? And like be honest with
yourself, right? Like how common is this? So an A, go down the list, trade
of the month, right? It's it's unusually strong. An A trade is still special, but
for me like I'm thinking, okay, could this be the trade of the month? high
quality core trade of the week for A minus. And then we kind of go down to
the bottom tiers and we see a B trade for me is like situational filler. It's
a common trade now. And then a C trade would be experimental. Like I don't know
what I'm doing, but let me like work on this play, right? And and and you might
look to the left and notice that both of those are 5%.
It's >> like what's going on there?
>> Well, we talked a lot about this, right? Like B trades are the most dangerous
trades for us, right? This is everyone's going
to like find their own, you know, system, but A minus trades have
undisputable edge, right? They're not as special as A or A+, but they have
undisputable edge. B trades are very common, right? H A A+ trades are rare.
They don't occur very often. So, like I wish I could take an A+ trade every day,
but like we don't even get one every day. B trades show up every day. So,
that's where like I know personally like I have to be very careful because
if I take them all, I I start to get messy. I start to get careless. I start
to get um you know, I'm just not I'm not selective enough and it starts to cloud
my mind, right? And you you take some paper cuts and all these things and then
all of a sudden you're not seeing the a minus trades as well. And the risk
really if we're doing it in like a logarithmic fashion should be 80% 40%
20% and then 10% for B and then 5% for C. And the reason that we knocked the B
trades down to 5% is because they're common enough and
sort of dangerous enough where like 10% and then sort of the ability to
overtrade them is sort of in this gray area where at least for my trading it
can be kind of detrimental. And so I like to collapse that B risk into C
risk. So basically anything under A minus becomes like that 5%.
And what I love about this chart is that frequency on the right where it really
becomes this triangle in terms of the amount of trades you take. And again,
just mentioning, but it's like the A+ we're going to take every A+ trade.
These are A+, but they don't show up that much. A's, they show up a little
more frequently. A minus, you know, this is the normal trades. We're saying we
have edge in these playbooks. These are the trades we always want to take. And
most months they're going to be the trades that we take the most frequently,
but they're not the trades that show up the most frequently. And that's where
the danger of the BNC trades show up where you have to pass on a lot of B and
C trades. >> Exactly. And that's why we created that
sort of triangle effect with the frequency where, you know, you're going
to you're going to be presented with a lot more B and C trades when you come to
the market. But we like to think of the frequency that we're taking is actually
more like a triangle where the center is around a minus. And that's like I'm my
best when the most trades I'm taking are A minus trades. I'd love to take more A
and A plus trades. They just don't show up as often. And then I'll take less B
trades, right? Like I want to be super selective with those and only take the
best ones. >> I'm right there with you. I mean, you
probably heard me say, but my little catchphrase is catchphrase is avoiding
leaks. And to me, the leaks are B trades where you look back at your stats. These
aren't the trades that make up your monthly P&L. They don't really like push
the needle. Um, but they're the trades that if you just take way too many of
them, they could cut into a lot of your winners and then you're not making
enough P&L on your A+ trades and your A plays. So, for me, I'm putting a cap
every month on my B trades that I'm allowed to take and that's a way of
avoiding the leak. >> How'd you figure that out? Like do you
so are you tagging your grades and then kind of reviewing like how you're doing
on each each grade at the end of the month?
>> Exactly. Exactly. Where I haven't always done this where you can go like into the
end of the month and it's like did me Tim have a good month. But what I've
come to find is like it's really not just me as one person. Like each of
these grades are different traders. They're different versions of me. So
like there's the A+ trader Tim. There's the A trader Tim, the A minus trader
Tim, the B trader Tim. So every day my whole entire process is around
accurately grading these setups and keeping running stats. So I'm keeping my
win rate. I'm keeping the amount of misrades in each grade, the inaccurate
grades. I'm keeping the running P&L per each grade. And what I found in the past
is the B trader would have been fired long time ago. like he doesn't have
edge. Super low win rate and ultimately like just does not have consistently
profitable edge. So with that in mind, I'm being super defensive and super
cautious of that B trader Tim. >> Well, I want to dive into this multiple
personality. >> It sounds a little psycho, doesn't it?
So, [laughter] so you're thinking of yourself as a different trader when like
okay you come to the market you're presented with a trade you give it a
grade right and the way that we do that would be assessing the characteristics
of that trade the the variables the attributes right and like I said it it's
totally different for every playbook for for every trader because you have your
setup and you know what makes a really great version of that setup or what
makes sort of a normal or maybe even subpar our version of that setup, right?
So, you're you're computing those things in your head, you're coming up with a
grade, and then so are you you're then becoming a certain type of trader for
that trade depending on the grade. And is that change like how you're acting?
>> Exactly. Literally, it's like who's sitting in the seat today? And that
could change as the day goes on. Like, you know, you could have trades popping
up where on some days though, you're in the pre-market and we're doing our
scanning. We're on our team calls and we're like, "All right, nothing's really
actionable right now. There's stuff we're watching. It could set up, but
nothing's really actionable." And that's the B trader then sitting. So like the B
trader's goal at that point is protect risk. We're not just going willy-nilly
right off the open price discovery trying to hit into something. We're
waiting very selectively waiting for something to set up. But the vibe is
super different because like you don't have an A+ opportunity in front of you.
But then like even going to the gold and silver parabolics, those are huge
opportunities that the night before, you know, we're talking in our chats and
we're getting excited about these trades. And then the next day, who's
sitting in the seat? It's the A+ trader. I allow him to take more stabs, express
the trade in different ways. And ultimately, you have your daily stop
limit, you have the 80% that you're willing to risk on it, but he gets a lot
more offensive than the B trader does when he's sitting there.
>> I I love this because this plays into the the approach, the psychology of how
you're going to attack the trade. Like because you're right, like you get a B
trade and it it could be a good trade and it could turn into an A minus trade,
but you might not want to just slam into it in the pre-market or off the open
with like you said with all that price discovery.
So, you're saying that like on an A+ trade, you'll you want to be able to
take more steps. Like you're going to give yourself more shots. You're going
to be more willing to get in there, get your hands dirty, try things, express
yourself, be okay with a loss, right? get back in, right? Like those that that
more active resilience. >> Um, this is worth it. There's a lot of
opportunity. There's a lot of potential here.
>> The riskreward is probably fantastic in terms of like if you catch it, the
reward is going to be great. So, it becomes worth not only, and I think this
is kind of what I'm picking up from you with these different traders, like not
only just in a stark way deciding like, okay, it's an A+ trade, that means I put
on 80% of my risk. It's like you might not find that exact spot at least right
away, but at the very least you can attack it more freely, give yourself
more shots, trade more, and like trading more is sort of a way to to to put on
more risk, be more willing to get back in those those types of things.
>> Exactly. It's like the mode that you're bringing to the desk every day. And like
I we just had a team call about that gold and like this was a huge talking
point for us where it's like who was sitting in the desk and how should we
have traded that gold opportunity where it for us like it was a day and we're
talking about the Thursday where gold gapped up and then had a great opening
range breakdown parabolic blowoff short. We call it the overextension short. And
that was a day where it was okay to get involved in pre-market. It was okay to
buy puts right on the open as insurance. And I know you were the one actually
talking about that pre-market trade, too.
>> Have you heard this study of tens of millions of traders which shows that
only 1% of retail traders actually make it? Don't be a statistic. Visit
smbtradingfloor.com to greatly increase your odds. I know
that in my like when I think of times where I have struggled or you know
periods where maybe I've drawn down or been inconsistent and had to kind of
wrangle myself in and get back get back on my feet, get back on into P&L highs.
It's it's usually been a case where I have had a compulsion to grow. It's
usually after a great period of trading where you have this last fall for me.
>> You you like you have this compulsion to grow, right? You're like, I'm ready. And
of course, the first thing you see is a bunch of B trades. And you're thinking
to yourself, okay, like I'm a I'm a bigger trader now. Like I'm just going
to not only that, but it can creep in, at least for me, sometimes it can creep
in like not only am I trading these bigger, but you know, I've graduated.
Like I'm a better trader now, so I can also trade these more. and maybe even
overtrade them, right? And before you know it, you're you're overtrading the B
setups. You're you might be oversizing them and you might be trading them with
the mindset of that A+ trader that you're talking about where like you're
getting in in the pre-market and then you're get you're slamming in at the
open, >> right? And it's like that's where I
think you breaking this down is like kind of brilliant because
>> you can still reserve. It's like, okay, this is a B trade. I'm still my B trader
even though I've graduated, even though I've increased my risk, even though I
want to be um at this next level. This is still a B trader. So, I'm going to be
the super patient um picky picky trader here. And it's like you have your
numbers, you have your stats, and the numbers don't lie. So, even if you're
making a lot of money on your A+ and A trades, that doesn't mean the B trader
stats are good and worthy of more risk. Not even close. And we were we've talked
a ton about B trades. So we mentioned in this graphic like we're saying that
they're common trades, but if you think back last year, like there was a couple
trades I know we were both involved in that were B trades and we were kind of
pushing them a little too much. Like what felt different about those trades
to you compared to a gold or silver parabolic? like at the time of of seeing
them like >> and even hindsight now, but like both
>> which trades you talking about? >> I'm kind of talking about the Tesla and
Ethereum in range >> in range. Yeah. So, I would say like the
sometimes the feeling of a B trade or even a C or something that you
shouldn't be taking, right? We're kind of we're talking about that sliding
scale and I I think sometimes the the the risk should be zero on these or you
wait. But the feeling sometimes is like, oh man, like this looks like it could be
something like I could really walk into something
here. And like when when you're thinking like that, when I'm thinking like that,
like I know now that like that means like something's not ready. Like I'm not
seeing it. I'm like fantasizing about like what could happen and then you're
kind of getting in in case it does which is
>> and on the thing you say incomplete. It's that's perfect
>> which is totally different than like seeing it like it's happening now. Like
this is an event. This is a big op. It's happening now. It's triggering whatever
your variables are, whatever your indicators are saying, whatever the
catalyst is. like all the all of these types of things that we talk about at
Bionic Trader are inputs into this decision- making. But I think that when
you trade long enough, those inputs like give you a gut feel, which is why I have
like a gut feel column here >> because sometimes you feel like a
feeling of like hope or like what what what if this happens or what could
happen and sometimes you feel like man I'm totally willing to eat it on this.
Like if this doesn't work, touche to the market like you win. But like this is
like this is why I'm here. I should be taking this. This is my job. like this
is exactly what I've studied for and trained for. And when you have that
feeling, you you just know like that's a that's a solid trade. That's a that's at
least an A minus trade, if not probably an A or A+ trade.
>> I felt that today with FSLY and we took that trade on joint on our personals,
but it was a Agraded trade for us. Uh we graded the catalyst as an A+ and it uh
was an earnings day one. the market was crashing which made it a little more
difficult in the downgrade to the A. But there was a point when it was holding
above VWAP where I'm like I'm buying on dips versus the low a day and I'm like
I'll let this prove me wrong. Like there's no way if this doesn't break low
a day am I lightening up. I'll let it prove that it's not working.
>> Yeah. Can you talk about that for a second? because we were talking about
this after the close and you were really pounding the table on this play which is
great because you we were both looking into different sides of the catalyst and
we might we might talk about this next week because this was a this was an
interesting topic but um but you got to the point where you had done all the
computation that you do on this particular playbook and said like guys
this is this is fairly special like we gota we should we should be putting risk
on and I noticed >> that you were trading it like that right
the market was having a stroke in front of our eyes. Everything was crashing.
Fastly was just holding up. Was just holding V up. It couldn't go down. It
couldn't go down. In the back of my mind, I'm thinking
like I'm in it. I'm long. Our our team's long in the in the joint account. We're
we're getting longer. We're buying it. But, you know, as I'm trading my own
account, I'm thinking to myself, man, like I might have to be more patient
here. like the market is is really really weak in and heavy selling and
it's continued selling and it might put a cap on this thing or at least cause it
to like pull in a little bit more than we think. I'm going to I'm going to take
I'm going to take my foot off the gas a little bit and then I look over at you
and you're just accumulating this thing like I think I got in earlier than you.
I think I had bet I had better prices than you. I was in a more of a position
of strength than you. And then by the by by the time the thing um completed its
move, like you were you were up way more than I was and you were a lot bigger in
the trade because you you clearly had that that thing go off where it's like
if this doesn't work then then touche like this is this is too good not to not
to be buying these things, >> you know. Shout out to you. Great call
out. Huge percent Aball in the pre-market.
um which I know you've talked about a ton in your Bionic meetings, but you
know what it comes back to is who was sitting in the seat today and it wasn't
the B trader Tim for this Fastly opportunity. Like this was the A trader
sitting and the A trader is willing to like willing to just get stopped out on
this idea if all the checks in favor. We interpreted the catalyst huge inflection
quarter, huge acceleration on this earnings report in the right theme.
you've done it. You did a ton of work. It's in edge computing, um, which is a
potential theme. And great earnings call. And then we're going into the open
and we're like, if price action confirms our interpretation of this catalyst, our
analysis, like it's go time. And then we get massive volume right off the open
and we're like, oh yeah, this is game on. So at that point, even though the
market's crashing, like this is an idiosyncratic event. So, as long as
price action keeps supporting this trade, um I was willing to swing
it. And that just meant buying on dips to VWAP, um using a TWAP program and
trying to really build into this swing trade. And ultimately, you know, we
ended up taking a lot of it off because it moved 90% today.
>> But it all comes back to who is sitting in the seat and that very much dictates
how I would trade it. Because like if this was just any random trade, if this
was a B-graded earnings trade, I would be so much more flexible. Where it's
like maybe you bid into the VWAP pullback, but then like when it can't
make a new high, you're selling some and then you're kind of working into a
better average price on the next higher low and like you're really trading
around this position and in and out way more. But for an a catalyst play for me,
I'm just trying to get size at advantageous prices for the swing trade.
>> So I love how you're marrying the psychology to the to the actual great in
the trading. This is this is great stuff. And it sounds like you've mapped
out also like how those specific traders operate. you know, you're actually
describing like different execution tactics for each of these traders, which
is also great. And we've talked about the trade frequency as well, like the
freedom of expression on like an A+ setup, the reservation on a on a B
setup. >> Yes, I know you've been talking to a
performance coach for quite some time now,
>> and it sounds like this guy's great, by the way.
>> He's awesome. Um, >> absolutely awesome. And you know,
>> he's a former poker player, plays a lot of poker as well. And there's a lot of
parallels, >> but keep going.
>> Yeah. No, that's a that's so many parallels to poker obviously because
we're talking about what do you do when you have a good hand? I mean, that's the
whole >> Yes,
>> that's this whole that's this whole conversation. So, it is exactly like
poker. So, that's great that that he was he was doing that. Um, but it sounds
like you're bringing a lot of positive psychology
tactics into this work on creating setups and like have you did you get any
of this from from talking to him? Yeah, when I'm talking about the different
traders in the seat, that was from a couple of our sessions. And the bigger
thing that led to all of this was the idea like in poker they say playing
tight. Like the goal is you really do want to play tight and it's super hard.
And basically the tra trading parallel is that's being very selective and
accurately grading. And like it's so easy to go into it saying like I got
this, you know, it's easy, but it's like no, it's super hard to play tight and
just understanding that it's super hard. Now you're coming up with strategies
that make it simpler. So all that is is like the idea of this like split
personality that I'm doing here is just a way of making this simpler for me.
>> So playing tight is in general grading correctly. And so therefore, the
most of the time you're you're folding or is playing tight
>> a mode that you're in when you're seeing nothing, when you're seeing no good
hands. Or is it the same thing? Playing tight is just you're always playing
tight. >> You and it's most poker players also
probably will admit that they don't always play tight because human
psychology emotions have a factor. You know, you win a big pot and you're like,
"All right, like I'll just keep playing the blinds. I'll play the small blind,
the big blind." And before you know it, you know, you're just kind of like
you're raising, you're, you know, checking a ton, but playing tight to
what you said is the former where it's you're going to be folding a lot. Like
the idea in poker too, I forgot what the number, but it's like if your cards
don't add up to like 13 or something like that, it's a pretty bad hand. And
those are like our B and C trades. And the idea is like you want to avoid
playing those as much as possible. And when you do get the ace ace, that's your
A+. That's when you want to go. Um, it's easier said than done just like in
trading. >> So the like the goal is to be playing
tight all the time. Like that's that's the
>> Okay, that's the ideal. >> So what would playing tight in trading
look like? >> Playing tight really is taking your A+
trades, your A trades, and your A minus trades, and that's it. because I know my
stats on the B trades and they aren't consistently profitable.
They don't make up my month's P&L. And there's a part of me too that knows
every month, every quarter, every year, the trades that make up the bulk of my
P&L. And you've heard like the 80% of profits come from like 20% of your
trades. Like I would even argue it's like 80 to 100% of your profits come
from probably 10% of your trades. Like it's always the A+ and A trades.
And in certain market environments, your A minus trades can make a difference.
Like definitely see that in good months for my playbooks. But at the same point,
yeah, for me playing tight is really trying to stick to those A-grade trades.
>> Okay. So, how how do you
think about grading these trades? So, like you've you've covered really I mean
quite spectacularly how to deal with an A+ trade or a B trade like when you when
you've identified that, right? And I think that this is like the way that
you're thinking about this is like I'm going to be I'm going to be doing this
now. Um but like how do we get there? like how do we accurately
>> identify that something is A and not B or A+ and not not A. Where's the line? I
know that it's playbook specific, but can you give an example maybe with the
gold trade or the Fastly trade where it's like here's what I'm looking for
and this is what would have made it like A+ or or A minus.
>> Yeah. And I think the heristics we're using too to like get the overall vibe
of trade of the quarter for A+, trade of the month for A, trade of the week for A
minus is like a really good um it's foundational for us, but at the
same point like what it comes into is your checks in favor for the trade. So
every playbook setup you have, you have the checks in favor and it's not black
and white. Like it's not like it can't be a plus if it doesn't have a catalyst.
That has me thinking of the September last September Tesla breakout.
>> Yeah. >> But it is looking at all of your checks
in favor. You have studied a ton of these past examples and accurately
graded those past examples in hindsight. And you're looking to see on this given
trade, what are my checks in favor? What are the entry criteria? So like for the
gold it was meeting all of our overextended
criteria everything and it was gapping up into that Thursday massive gap up
into that day. So we were getting the acceleration as well. So before the open
we're saying this is the a potential A+ opportunity. It doesn't have to set up
that way but it's a potential A+ because it has all of the checks in favor. And
you can then look at past trades, past overextension shorts, and you see all
the checks in favor that that you have and you compare them.
>> What were the checks in favor for that trade? It was like above the Kelners on
like every higher time frame, like all four time frames, like multiple gaps,
large extension, huge huge blowoff in the after hours. Like I'm just rattling,
but is was that was that >> ATRs from the fiveday low? Huge. it was
well above uh in terms of ATRs all the moving averages and you mentioned it too
like the biggest thing is that acceleration at the end of the run and
we got the unfilled gaps. It was up I would have to even look at the chart
again how many days but I believe it was like three days. It was like that
perfect scenario. >> Okay. So, you mentioned something about
the night before we're texting about this being an A+ scenario and and and
you just said something about >> you just said something about
identifying an A+ scenario and then you just said something about
whether or not you're going to find that entry,
right? So, >> yes.
>> So, we're talking about two different things. So, we're talking about an A+
situation that we've identified. You can even sometimes identify it the night
before, like if there's news or a gap up, like in Gold's case.
But then you have maybe an an entry, maybe things come together and there's
an actual setup on that day that allows you to really see it and control your
risk and you have an entry where you can actually put all that risk on. These are
two different things. Correct. >> Exactly. And honestly, I could answer
it, but I kind of want to throw it back to you because just the other day, you
called a team meeting for one of our teams. Uh we trade with them every day.
It's four of us. And you called the team meeting just about this and the
difference. And sometimes when it's scary, it shouldn't be scary, but if you
put in your head that like I need to put all of my A+ risk on one entry, it
becomes almost uh debilitating in a way. But I want to throw it back to you
because I think uh you explained this really well.
>> Yeah. So I I think that we talk about with an A+
trade and we mentioned it and it's here on the sheet full expression because
you've got overwhelming clarity contextually. You've got a situation
where gold for instance is in a zone right on this day where the odds are
really high. The riskreward is really high. We don't yet know how it's going
to play out. It's the night before. It's the pre-market. We're game planning.
We don't know what that that great entry is going to look like yet. We might have
some scenarios that we've game planned for. Maybe there there's some crazy
scenario that that we missed that we didn't game plan for. So, really, we
don't know. Nobody knows. Now, what we do know, the only thing we
do know is the fact that we're in we're living inside of an A+ world. We're
bringing our A+ we're bringing our A+ trader to the table. We don't know what
cards are going to come out yet, but we know that we got to bring our A+ trader
to the table. >> So, rather than putting all the pressure
on, okay, if we've deemed this A+, like now we got to think about slamming
into 80% of our stop. That might be a little paralyzing before
you're really seeing it play out. And you might not be fully expressing the
trade, trading freely. And that EV of the trade, the expected value as that
price action develops >> changes throughout the day, right?
Because you might have your setup, you might not have your setup yet. Maybe you
have a lot of odds against some stop, but it's kind of far away. it's worth
some risk, but you haven't really seen it prove itself and it hasn't gotten
tight and given you a place where you can like get really big. You know,
there's all kinds of like dynamics that might play out that will get you really
big or might give you some risk or might maybe there's a spot where you're really
seeing it and you can put on that 80% risk. But all of those things are
somewhat out of our control because we can't control the market. The market's
going to have to give it to us. Like we have to take what the market gives us.
So rather than being so obsessed with putting on 80% where maybe it never
plays out that way and it like paralyzes you. Just think about okay, we're in an
A+ situation. I'm bringing my A+ trader. That means I'm going to play. That means
that I'm going to >> What's the A+ trader allowed to do?
>> Yeah, you're you're allowed to express yourself. So maybe you're seeing a
situation where um there's a trade it's probably, you know, maybe it's not worth
80% risk. Maybe it's worth 20% risk within this overall up and you're going
to give yourself multiple tries and maybe it's against some stop that you
think is like really solid, right? Because it shouldn't get back up there.
Maybe it hasn't gotten tight enough or done something in terms of confirming
that lets you really get big yet, but but you want to be short. You want to be
in the trade. And so I think that that idea of like bringing your A+ trader and
trading freely, letting it come to you, sometimes that in and of itself can get
you up to that risk because then when things start working, you're in a
position of strength. You're really seeing it. You're feeling the market.
And then by the time that entry comes, like you it's not cold turkey. You're
able to add, you know, now you have your full position and and you've been
feeling it. And I think that that's really productive to just think freely
and and be more it I think it's relaxing versus
>> Yeah. >> like I'm so tense because I need to find
the perfect entry. Like I don't I don't like the I don't like the expectations
being put on like myself or or anybody else to be perfect because trading is
never perfect. >> Here's a mindbending stat for you. SMB
traders have 20x to 40x higher odds of success than independent traders. Find
out why and how to greatly increase your odds by visiting smbtradingfloor.com.
Sometimes reviewing puts you in that like you have to get this one perfect
spot because like you review a bunch of the past parabolic shorts and like there
are really good like spots where you're like this is your last chance to get in
or this is the highest EV spot but I know cuz we've traded together a long
time on all of those we traded them very freely. We weren't just hitting it one
spot. We were trading multiple ways you know getting puts. We are getting short
stock different places like it it's a big difference.
>> Yeah. Different stops, right? Like you might different stops. Yeah.
>> You might have a wider trade going on against a wider stop that's more of a
idea around this trade and then you might have a spot that kind of lets you
get big against a closer stop and then maybe that doesn't work and maybe you're
hitting out right away but you still have your bigger trade going. Then maybe
then it starts to work and then you and then things come together and maybe you
get another spot and you add and then that one works and now boom like
[clears throat] you're in everything and then and then the trade happens and
you've traded it and it's not going to be like this perfect entry that you can
go back to and say, "Yeah, it was an A+ trade and I just waited forever and then
I found my perfect entry and I put on 80% of my risk and then it worked and
then I went home." like >> those are the ones that look good on a
fridge, but I'm good not doing [laughter] that either.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and so I I like that. I like that attitude, that philosophy, and
I think that that actually uh works really well with your multiple
personality approach to trading because that's not the way I would be attacking
a B trade. >> Not at all. You'd be waiting for a
specific pattern. Yeah. >> You wouldn't be just like buying puts or
calls on the open as insurance. You don't need insurance for a B trade.
>> Right. Right. >> And it's funny like I like the point too
just going back that you made where it's like you never know what's going to
happen when the market opens and it does get tricky like with gold and silver the
last week of January. Like I know for myself like recency bias kind of came
into play because that Monday like the gold trade was on the Thursday. That
Monday we had the silver backside day one parabolic short and it played out in
a certain way where intraday it got extended like it made a really big move
intraday and ended up cracking later in the afternoon and I remember just
getting so honed in on Thursday being cautious of like what if gold trades the
same scenario and at the end of the day we don't know. So rather than just
waiting for that perfect scenario to play out just like silver did, it's
express it how like express the A+ trade in multiple ways. Trade freely like
listen to the tape and not get so stuck on like the A+ scenario.
>> Yeah. The two things that you just made me think about to your point is a like I
think sometimes it can be detrimental to say things to yourself like oh I would
prefer it do this >> like you're you're playing out scenarios
and you're saying well I'd really like it to do this because then like you know
like you can't control the market so it's like especially when it's an A+
scenario it might not do that so you can't necessarily bank on it doing that
perfect thing like you were kind of I think in your mind you admitting that
you were like kind of set on it like trading higher maybe off the open and
doing something similar to silver. >> Um that I mean that's
I think being open open-minded is always always always a good thing um when we're
trading just in general, but I think specifically for for these these A+
scenarios. All right. So clearly a key part of getting this right is is being
able to grade these things correctly, right? I think, you know, we've talked a
lot about how to how to handle that, the importance of it, um how to set up a
process for it, but ultimately like we need to have the skills to be able to
grade these things correctly, and that just comes from a playbooking a ton of
these, grabbing examples, studying them, back testing, um and and experience,
right? Reviewing these particular trades. So, that's a whole other can of
worms that, you know, I think we can get into and we're going to talk about this
next week, right, with this FSLY trade. We'll break it down. We'll talk about,
you know, the things about the catalyst, the things about technicals that made it
the grade that it was and why we traded it the way that it was because of these
variables. And I think um this was a very particular
particular trade that was interesting to me because of how much you pounded the
table on it after breaking down the catalyst. So you know there aren't many
people I know who can break down a catalyst like you Tim. So I would love
to talk about this next week um if we can. So I'm all for it.
>> We'll see everybody next week. Have a great week of trading and uh peace out.
