You started door knockocking at 42
[music] years old. Yes, sir.
>> Most people, they can't comprehend that.
>> Did you put this big infrastructure in
place? Did you have this big operations
plan? Uh, there wasn't. It was hit the
streets, knock the doors, get the sales.
>> You ended up having a sale at your
company for a healthy nine figures.
>> We didn't have this massive plan. It was
just, hey, go sell.
>> Sales, especially door knockocking, is
very unsexy.
>> But in today's day and age, there's a
lot of things that you could go do that
are shitty that no one wants to do
anymore. and you could create a lane for
yourself.
>> What's the best piece of non-b
businessiness advice that you would want
to give them?
>> There's no such thing as business
problems, just personal [music] problems
that roll into the business.
>> You're shitty at home, you're shitty at
work. But guess what most people are
doing? They're leading different lives.
And what's happening is who you really
are is starting to bleed into the
business. And it does over time.
>> If me and you died tomorrow and [music]
you had one more guiding principle to be
with the younger generation, what would
that be?
>> It's a simple answer.
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James. I'm here with Jack
and Josh and we have an incredible guest
for you all right now here in Dallas,
Texas, the roofing mogul, the man that
sold his company in 2022 for nine
figures. Mr. Kurt Lennington, it's great
to be here with you today, my friend.
>> Good to be
>> Well, where I want to get things started
today is first of all, where are you
from?
>> Uh, born and raised South Africa.
>> And you didn't come from a rich family?
did not. No.
>> You spent a lot what 20 years in
corporate America.
>> I did. Yeah.
>> I want you to take us back to that
moment, you know, not even when you had
that realization of going from the
corporate world to entrepreneurship, but
more so the people watching, they may
have no idea. You started door
knockocking at 42 years old.
>> Yes, sir.
>> Most people, they can't comprehend that.
they think that it's too late for them
to start a business or it's or they're
too young per se. How do you feel about
that narrative that oh no, you have to
start way sooner. You didn't let that
define you even though that you were 42
years old. What are your thoughts on
that?
>> Well, I I mean I think you can buy to
any limitation that you set for yourself
whether you're old, young, you come for
money, don't come for money, whether you
feel like you have an advantage or a
disadvantage. In a lot of cases, I think
folks that uh come from an environment
where they're disadvantaged uh should
love their parents even more and say,
"Thanks for giving me the road map on
not how to do it. I appreciate the
education, right?" And and leverage
that. I think uh hey, look, for me, I
was an executive vice president uh at a
at a company when I started
door-nocking. And there's a lot of
times, humbling moments where you knock
a door and you're sitting in front of a
homeowner and and uh they're sort of
talking down to you, right? like like
you're some door-nocking salesman. And
yeah, I was already pretty successful in
my corporate career, but um I think um
wanting to win and wanting to be the
best was more important than my pride.
And so uh you know, we say leave that at
the door, right? What's what's more
important? Like just just put it aside,
go do it. There's far worse things out
there if you really think about it. I
don't if you've watched that TV show
where folks like have the worst jobs on
earth kind of thing. And there's some
really bad jobs out there. Having the
ability to live in Texas with the
beautiful weather and beautiful people
and knock doors, homes are big, roofs
are big, massive opportunity. Texas is
also uh along sort of like hail alley
which comes down from Colorado all the
way into Texas. And so gets a lot of
hail. A lot of roofs get damaged every
single year. And if you look after
people, you look after your customers,
you get to replace the roof more than
once.
>> And what was life like growing up in
South Africa?
Yeah. You see the scar under my chin?
Yeah. I was walking home one day and a
tiger got me.
>> Are you serious?
>> No, I'm just kidding. Um, [laughter] you
>> probably would have believed you on that
story.
>> Yeah. No. Um, yeah. I I you know um I
think I'd mentioned earlier we uh came
over to to the States. I came over with
a with a buddy and um I remember one
night we were riding our bicycle to the
movie theater and I you know I'd left
because I felt like I needed to go find
myself or I'd sold myself on that right like at a younger age and
I'm like I want to go find myself and I
realized it doesn't matter where you go
in the world people are people they've
always been people even even today you
know in governments and all those kind
of things um those things have been
happening for centuries they were just
ever um publicized as quick as they are
or recorded as quick as they are.
Information is just moving so fast. So
um people are the same. And so you can
become great wherever you're at. You
don't need to change your location
because people are people and
opportunities opportunity. And you
shouldn't discriminate that whether it's
door- knockocking, whether it's uh
whatever it is. Um you you can you can
become great at it because there's
somewhere in the world someone making
money doing that. And if I'm not
mistaken, you spent a couple years in
like the South African Army.
>> Yeah, I I uh uh went to mandatory
service in South Africa right out of
high school.
>> Did that help you out? Uh yeah, it was
the best thing that ever happened to me
because um you know I was I was a little
tricky growing up, you know, playing
rugby, getting into trouble, we didn't
have money, probably always always in
fights, always you know, on the streets
and and so going into the military and
getting that discipline. Uh in South
Africa, we said it's the best it's the
worst time of your life, the best time
of your life you never want to do again
in the military. Um, and we were
deployed, right? We were deployed uh
when there was a lot of u unrest between
Enarta and ANC in South Africa. And so,
you know, we were kids that um hadn't
been in the military too long that were
exposed to things that we probably
shouldn't have seen and we were way too
young and probably not trained well
enough to be in that situation, but we
worked through it and here we are.
>> You left your corporate job to start a
roofing company. How did you land on
roofing of all things as the vehicle
that you wanted to venture into?
>> But before you get into that, why did
you even come to the United States in
the first place?
>> Um, you know, I was a a a kid with an
interesting upbringing. Uh, went to a
ton of schools growing up. I grew up,
you know, watching movies and seeing the
Hollywood sign and like, you know, you
just have this, you know, we first time
I went on a plane, I was in my 20s on an
airplane. So like I I for me coming to
America was like this dream this big
thing like I didn't have the dream to
come to America and become an actor or
or anything like that but I I felt like
how awesome would it be? And uh what had
actually happened was a buddy came to me
and he's like hey do you want to go to
America? And I'm like that'd be freaking
awesome. How do we make that work? He's
like well I know some people and all the
rest of it. I was dating a girl at the
time. She was a ballerina. And uh I
actually said no cuz I didn't want to
break up with her. And then like a year
later we broke up. I called my buddy up
and I'm like, "Hey, you still want to go
to America?" He's like, "Yeah, let's do
it." So we sold everything. Didn't have
much. Um had $700 left. Um and was on
that plane with some bags and you know,
rest rest is history.
>> And so yeah, I want to get into that.
That's an amazing story. But I also want
to get into, you know, leaving the
executive vice president position to go
starting a roofing company. Why was
roofing the vehicle that you wanted to
venture into?
>> It wasn't necessarily the vehicle. And I
didn't have this amazing plan either,
right? Uh but the theory is you have to
get in flight to get feedback to change
direction. And so I tell most people
like whatever it is, just get in flight.
And the feedback will tell you whether
you're going to stay there, whether
you're going to move on, whether you're
going to pursue it, whether you're going
to change to something else. I met a a
gentleman that worked with me at LA
Fitness that came from the roofing
space. And him and I became friends and
I'd actually left the Texas region to go
deal with an acquisition with the
company I was with. And uh he ended up
quitting because he he didn't like his
new boss. uh they transferred me back to
Texas and him and I sat down. I got
back, he'd left, he actually went to go
work for another roofing company and I
sat him down and I said, "Well, what if
I put the money up and you don't work
for the other company?" At first, I was
like, "Hey, if I make an extra 10,000,
20,000 a month on top of what I was
making." Like, that'd be pretty cool,
right? Sweet egg.
>> Yeah, that's all it was.
>> And that was your five to nine pretty
much.
>> That that that was Yeah. And that's all
it was. But then we realized how
fragmented the space was and how all
these companies were sort of mom and pop
operators. And so if we applied all the
things I learned over 20 years
recruiting, training, developing people,
attracting talent, looking after talent,
helping them win, and applied those
things to the roofing space, how good
would could we become? And so we quickly
surpassed most of the companies in the
space uh within a couple of years.
>> I love that. And I think there's a big
misconception that you have to have this
grandiose plan to get started when in
reality you just had to put one foot in
in front of the other and kind of just
figure it out. So when you first got
started, what did that initial kind of
plan look like to kind of get the
business off the ground?
>> Yeah. So a lot of folks ask like did you
put this big infrastructure in place?
Did you have this big operations plan?
Was there a lot of systems and process
in place? Uh there wasn't. It was hit
the streets, knock the doors, get the
sales. If we sell enough but we react
quick enough to apply you know
production and and operations to it then
then you look after it and you you can
keep growing. So we did it the other way
around. We didn't have this massive
plan. It was just hey go sell form the
business learn the presentation
understand the product and go door
knock.
>> How big was the team at the beginning?
>> Uh we started with like four guys. You
know what I love about that as well is I
feel like so many people, especially
like the newer entrepreneur, they spend
so much time trying to build out the
backend and the process. And it's like,
look, it doesn't matter how good the
back end or the processes, if you don't
have any clients and any money coming
in, and none of it matters.
>> Yeah. And and look, there are probably
some industries where that backend is
absolutely more necessary than others,
but in the roofing space, that's
something you can get away with. And
you're right, I What are you going to do
if you don't have sales, but everything
else is perfect? What are you going to
do if you have a big sales team, but you
haven't learned how to develop them to
be great salespeople? Um, you're not
going to grow your business, right? So,
I've always led with sales first, uh,
and then made the adjustments, but more
importantly, hired people that have the
skills that I don't have to get that
stuff done because a lot of that stuff
to me sucks. I don't really want to do
it. I don't love it. I did it all myself
in the beginning, so I taught myself
everything. Uh and then I brought in the
expertise and and that's also a
challenge, right? Picking people,
choosing the right people and just
learning from those mistakes and just
continually moving forward regardless of
how many times people let you down
because people will let you down through
this process. And sometimes it's the
closest people to you that'll let you
down first.
>> Now, a lot of people would think that,
man, I'm I'm 42 years old. I'm not going
to go door knock. Like almost as if like
it's like a job that's like below them.
But you didn't have that mindset because
you realized that if I hey if I can
understand how to do this then we can
kind of grow everything else outside of
that. Was that kind of your mindset when
you initially when you first started the
company did start off kind of doing the
door knockocking yourself?
>> It was simple math and I'll tell you
why. Uh when I left my corporate job I
remember making a post on social media
that it was the first time I had not
worked in 19 years on New Year's Day.
I'm so used to working six days a week,
night and day, living on a plane, living
in a hotel, traveling the country for so
long.
>> Especially in fitness, you got to work
there on New Year's.
>> Yeah. You got New Year's resolutions,
right?
>> You know, you got to be there. You got
to take advantage of the time of year,
right? That's when everyone's thinking
about it. And so for me, after we
started knocking and we did the math on
how much we were going to make per roof,
I was like, "Well, wait a minute.
There's people in the health club
business that work two weeks a month,
two months to make that one commission
that I could make on a Saturday."
And I did the math and I said to myself,
even if I only if I because I kept my
corporate job for four years, I did both
and built the business. I got the
business to about 62 million in revenue
part-time.
Well, a lot of people would say I was
doing two full-time jobs. My wife would
tell you that. Like Saturdays and
Sundays I was doornocking. Sundays I was
doing presentations. And she was sitting
in the car. uh while I'm inspecting
roofs, doing presentations. So, she
knows all about it, right? And so, it it
wasn't just this, hey, I'm I'm going to
like, you know, leave my job and go do
that. We built it up before I walked
away. I thought I was going to be at my
corporate job for the rest of my life.
But we did so well, so fast that
eventually one day I woke up and said,
I've got all these folks that have
bought into us in the business and the
future and the growth, yet I'm still
part-time. What message is that sending
them if the leader is not allin?
>> Out of that 62 million, how much of that
were you kind of taking home in terms of
like personal income and profit or was
that purely a lot of that going back
into the business to expand even more?
>> Yeah, I always ran the business super
tight. I mean, we started uh in the
living room and then we eventually got
like a office half the size of this
room. We just could fit a desk and two
chairs in and then we got to another
office and another office. We didn't run
out and buy a gazillion trucks. We
didn't go out and do all that stuff. And
so, uh, yes, we reinvested a lot into
the business. But here's what's pretty
cool, right? Uh, my business partner at
one point, he's like, "Hey, shouldn't we
be taking more? Like, we're making all
this all this all this money." I think
his wife at the time actually, he's
like, "Hey, we're doing all this. I hear
all these sales numbers. Like, why
aren't we?" And then one day I called
him to the office and I sat him down and
I had a check for him and it was a
million dollar check. Biggest check he's
ever received in his life. He's like,
"What's this?" I said, "See, we don't
need to spend the money the minute we
make it. We We invest in the business
where we'll be able to share in much
bigger things than those little bits of
money that you take along the way.
Invest into the business long term,
invest into the people long term, and
the rewards will come." when you guys
were just starting out the the roofing
company for instance, obviously you're
kind of figuring things out. There
wasn't necessarily a vision in place,
what were kind of some of those initial
challenges that you experience that you
had to overcome? Um maybe that's not
even particular to just roofing, but
that you would see other entrepreneurs
deal with uh on your way up to scaling
to even that 62 million in revenue point
um and beyond that.
>> Yeah, everything's progression, right?
like uh if you think about like these
industries, these home service
industries, labor is a big deal, right?
And so when you go to market, some of
the big questions are like talk to us
about your labor force, talk to us
about, you know, how that's looking,
legal, not legal, all these all these
things, right? And so, uh, I remember in
the beginning we'd we'd
just like, you know, salespeople, you
professionals, the good ones are taken,
right? And you got to figure out how do
you get the good ones? Well, the same
thing with the laborers, right? Uh in
the beginning, you know, hey, we didn't
we didn't have the greatest laborers
because we had the ones that didn't have
jobs to go and install, right? So, you
got to work through some of that initial
like and I remember once um we had cuz
we were selling like crazy, right? And
we had these in stores, but we didn't
have enough laborers to or or crews to
install these roofs. And I remember me
and my business partner in the office
and we were going at it. We were like,
you know, and I'm like, get into your
truck and go drive the streets and find
people that are installing roofs and go
hire those crews. Like, let's go, let's
get out there and find people, right?
And so, you know, getting past labor,
but once you've got the right reputation
and you really look after those guys,
they're independent contractors,
subcontractors, they they're
subcontractors for us, but they really
we keep them busy all year long, right?
And we take care of them, right? We come
up to jobs with small things like, you
know, a case of waters and breakfast
and, you know, things like that. We
treat them like family. We look after
them and we always pay them on time and
we pay them a fair. We don't try and
screw them over. we don't short change
them cuz we understand the value of
installing those roofs and having those
guys out there when it's cold, when it's
blistering hot in summer like so, so
Labor was a big one, but once once
you've done it long enough and you've
taken care of people, then those guys
are like super loyal to us like um and
they'll travel the country, they'll do
whatever they need. We currently do work
in 27 states.
>> Wow.
>> Correct me if I'm wrong. you were not
just selling residential, you were also
selling to commercial uh jobs instead.
>> Yeah, our business has always been at
least 80% plus residential with some uh
multif family and commercial uh uh
platforms, but but we we always kept
residential on the forefront of what we
were really doing, right? I would
imagine that those commercial deals can
typically be a bit more substantial in
terms of the amount of money that you
make off of them, but I could also
imagine it be a much harder sale. Could
you kind of discuss some of the
differences in your business selling
residential versus commercial?
>> Yeah, so the theory is you're either a
residential roofer or you're a
commercial roofer. Uh your commercial
platform is going to be far more
technical, far more variables, a lot
more money. Uh and in a lot of cases
depending on the market those things are
dwindled down on the profitability too
just like new construction because folks
that own buildings and own you know
malls and strip centers and all the rest
of it they're already wise to this
process property management companies
right they'll they'll actually squeeze
it it's even though it may be an
insurance deal turn it into a retail
deal and then you know pocket the
difference to bridge budget deficits. or
or whatever it is, right? So, um and
then there's the look, your your sales
guys that do uh commercial, they've got
to know what they're doing, right?
Because it's very technical, right? And
so, um a lesson we learned really early
is is like, hey, stay in your lane in
business, right? Stop trying to take on
everything too fast, right? Great lesson
for people. We did that and we wanted to
be the big dogs fast, right? So, we
managed to convince this property
management company to use us in a
high-rise downtown Dallas uh condo. And
um uh we we didn't have the expertise.
We relied on the crew cuz they had been
doing it for a really long time, right?
Cuz we we we didn't know what we were
inspecting, right? And uh we were
idiots, right? And we're like, "Yeah, we
got this big job and we did it. First
rain comes in, they did the seams the
wrong way. All the condos in the top
floor got saturated with water and we
had to build out those condos again.
Cost us a couple hundred grand. Um, and
I had to float that, right? Um, cost of
doing business. Hard lesson to learn.
Stay in your lane until you're great at
it. Uh, don't take on too much too fast.
>> One of the things that I'm kind of
curious about is you started off with
door-nocking. How did your marketing
kind of evolve over time? Like, did you
start to do Google ads? Did you build
out canvasing teams? Were you doing you
know like you know Angie's list style
ads? Like what were you doing to
continue to grow the company outside of
just maybe door to door which you
started with?
>> So crazy thing in corporate America my
budget per location and I started there
when they had you know 40 50 locations
somewhere around there. I left when
there were 820 locations and my budget
was 500 bucks a month per location. It's
not that much. It's not much at all.
>> It's nothing. And so I came from a
culture where it was sort of grassroots,
businessto business. Uh you've got to go
build relationships with the businesses
and and and that's what we did. So I
just took the same methodology in
roofing. Um I didn't spend any money on
marketing. It was all doornocking.
Here's here was my thought. There were a
lot of companies out there and there
still is. There's a lot of folks saying,
"Well, you got to go digital. You got to
do this. You got to do that." And I
agree there's a place and time for it.
Absolutely. But what I did was I met
with my sales folks and I said, "Guys,
all these other companies are like
generating these leads for their
people." But guess where that money's
coming from?
It's coming from you. Cuz they get paid
less. Because they get handed leads. So
let me ask you a question. Do you want
me to pay you less and go generate leads
or do you want to make all the money and
keep doornocking?
And because we generated this culture of
like massive success,
my people were like, "No, we want the
money. We're going to keep doornocking."
And one of the things that I I'd imagine
would happen is that if you're if you're
door knocking, so in in a more tra like
the the process in which I come from,
you I would I would appointment set from
which a closer would come in.
>> And if your saleserson is also the door
knocker, I'd imagine they can also take
appointments that same day or maybe even
right there there.
>> So I'd imagine the the sales process and
the close rate could be even higher. Did
you find that to be the case?
>> Absolutely. The goal was to knock the
door, inspect the roof,
and get a close, whether it's retail or
insurance. You know, if it's damaged,
and you have an insurance policy, and
it's damaged enough to the point that
it's not a matter of if it's going to
leak, it's just a matter of when it's
going to leak, then the insurance
company based on certain parameters
would say, "Yes, we see that as a future
risk. we should replace this roof now
because later it would cost us a lot
more money and so we would want to get
an insurance claim um through that
process. Now only if it qualifies
meaning if there is damage and it is is
is going to save the insurance company
money then it makes sense for everyone.
>> Hey, what's going on guys? We're going
to get right back to this episode with
Kurt Lennington on how to build a ninef
figureure company. But we want you to
take a second real quick to subscribe to
the Hard Knocks podcast because every
single week we are bringing you guys
business mogul from all over the world.
We're talking eight and nine figure
operators, billionaires, Fortune 500
CEOs. You are not going to want to miss
this content on the Hard Knocks podcast.
So subscribe to the channel for new
episodes every single week. With that
being said, let's get back to the
episode. Sales, especially door
knockocking, is very like unsexy. You
know, it's it's one of those things
where people, you know, they don't grow
up and be like, "Hey, I'm actually going
to go knock doors and then in and be a
salesperson, right? But it's also a huge
opportunity when people find out how
much money they can make in the actual
opportunity that is behind there if you
especially if you're successful at it.
So, there's a there's so much you can
accomplish and so much money you can
make. How do you go about finding the
talent and pretty much almost showing
them the vision of what is possible
through this career?"
>> Two thoughts. one Jeffrey Gimmo uh sales
bible uh he says people are not
rejecting you they're rejecting your
offer so the first thing you got to do
is stop taking it personally when you go
out there and you do knock take your
sales cap off stop thinking about sales
think about it this way um you're at an
event the ladies wearing the Red Bull
things are running around giving out
free Red Bulls right come running up to
you if you drink Red Bull you're like
yeah or the monsters or or whatever it
is Right? Because they are promoting.
They are not selling. They don't want
money from you. They're promoting a
product. Now, if you go doornocking and
you change your your hat from sales to
promoting, I'm promoting the fact that
you have damage and we can improve or
get your property back to better than
pre-loss condition, whatever that was,
and also prevent a future issue. I'm a
facilitator of a process. I'm not
selling you anything. Okay. And so when
I when I think about it that way, right?
Now I don't stink of sales. And look,
you guys are young. When when I was
young and we hit the bars, right, and
you go into the bar and let's say you're
you're dating someone and you're walking
into the bar and you're like, "Man, this
place is full. Like, I got all these
ladies. Look at me. What a what a you
know, maybe you're just dating this girl
casually." And maybe like a month or two
later, you're not with her. It didn't
work out. and your your friends say,
"Hey, uh, where are we going to go
tonight?" You're like, "I got the spot."
Right? You get there and no one's
looking at you because you don't have
your woman on your arm, right? You're
desperate to find something. You stink
of sales.
You're repelling everyone around you.
Stop thinking about selling and stop
thinking about promoting, right? Be a
facilitator of a process. And that way
people are attracted to you, not
repelled by you.
>> He He just dropped the game right there.
>> Free game right there.
>> Free game.
>> Everybody listening to write that one
down.
>> Yeah, that was fire.
>> Yeah. Like it's it's not that hard. It's
the same as relationships. I go to all
these masterminds and everyone's trying
to learn from everyone and I've spoken
at a lot of events and and it seems like
everyone's always running up to someone
to get something from them or get
something out of them, right? And I've
never been that guy. I don't want
anything from you. As a matter of fact,
I just want to keep adding value, but
eventually you're going to say to me,
"Hey,
can you come check my roof?" Or, "Hey,
can you come speak at this event?" Or,
"Hey, can you cuz I don't need to. If I
wake up every day and I do the right
things, I don't need to have these
desperate moments, right? It's almost
like in sales, like a regular person in
a sales job, if they haven't done the
work and they don't have enough
appointments for the day, that one
appointment they have, what do they do
to it?
They try to squeeze they squeeze
everything they can out of it and that
customer hates the experience. It's like
this what would the are these guys
desperate like like and then they drop
their pens if if I'm allowed to say that
like and and it just and then at the end
of the day it becomes nonprofitable for
the business. Anyway,
>> you you touched on something right there
and and this is you said that often
times you have to get in the the mind
frame, the mindset of thinking that
they're not rejecting you, they're
rejecting your offer. And I think back
to, you know, the early days of when we
were building this channel, we didn't
have any connections. We didn't have any
credibility. So, like the only way that
we got interviews was literally cold
approaching people off the street and
asking them for a minute or two of their
time. And there were days where we'd get
hundreds and thousands of rejections.
The only way reason why we're here today
is because we just we didn't take no for
an answer and like we just didn't let
the rejection phase us. But again, I
want to dive a little deeper in this
because you have so much experience um
within this business and and knowledge
and expertise on this. To that person
out there that's watching this, they're
they're terrified of rejection, people
saying no, beyond just, you know, again,
trying to think about it as they're more
so rejecting the offer that you have. Is
there anything else about rejection that
you've learned or how you can kind of
transfer that negative energy into
success that you could maybe instill in
them?
>> Yeah, I mean it's a simple answer. Um I
think um getting past that that
rejection and taking it personally is is
the first one. Like if you're going to
keep taking it personally like then
you're never going to get anywhere. Um
and then the next one is the 10,000 hour
rule, right? um you just absolutely
positively just got to keep doing it
because you could do I mean there's a
lot of studies and stuff out there. You
could do anything with enough time
allocation per day, you'll become great
at it, right? Um and if you think about
it, we were all kids at some point. Um
we closed our whole childhood if you
think about it to get what we wanted
with our parents, our family, right?
Everyone, don't tell me you're not
because you are. How do you think closed
our whole childhood?
>> Hey, how do you think you got the lady
that you're with? How do you, if you're
married, how do you think you got your
wife? You closed her and she closed you
and you closed each other on why this is
so magical and why it's going to be
awesome for the rest of your lives,
right? Everyone's always closing. So,
the sooner you can convince yourself
that like you do close, you just may do
it differently,
um, the sooner you're going to realize
you can do it. Now, um,
does that mean it's going to be easy?
Does that mean it's comfortable? Does
that mean it comes natural? Absolutely
not. As a matter of fact, I think the
more unnatural it is, right, uh, the
more you got to work at it, the better
success you're going to have, right? if
you believe you can, right? Sometimes
those folks that are natural at it suck
because they develop bad habits, right?
And what also happens is when they are
so good at it and you're in sales, it
can start coming across as contrived
because it's too smooth and too good.
>> And it's actually the people that aren't
that smooth and that good that are the
greatest. And we see this at our uh
awards ceremony every year, which we've
got one coming up this Friday. Um last
year a gentleman in our sales force,
quiet guy, uh never knocked doors in his
life, he actually got the award and he
stood up there and he actually said he
said he said, "I suck at door
knockocking, but I don't give up." And
what we're doing in a lot of sales
environments is not rocket science.
It's good attitude, great work ethic.
We say hire the attitude, teach them the
rest.
>> We can teach you that stuff, but if you
hire people with a bad attitude,
they're always going to find, you know,
a reason for their failure.
>> You can teach competency, you can't
teach character.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you've launched other businesses in
addition to the roofing company. What
are some of those businesses for the
audience so that they can get some
background on there? And why did you
launch those companies?
Yeah, it was more of like, hey, h how do
I make sure that I'm being diligent with
the money that I've made and and you
know, I've always believed in like
allocation like if you allocate your
money, you can't spend it, right? And
so, so I've always believed in that. So,
that's what I did. And uh landscaping
company, uh swimming pool company, uh
land development company, and then
obviously personal investments.
>> Yeah, absolutely. What I I I mean for
entrepreneurs out there, uh at what
point would you see them being able to
diversify in other industries like that?
Because I think like today so many
entrepreneurs like like the starter
entrepreneur, they they get shiny object
syndrome. They want to do a hundred
different things like I want to do
crypto and boring business and AI and
content. And um a lot of times it's like
they don't realize that they need to
just focus on one thing. So, how were
you able to just kind of stay focused on
that vision with the roofing company
before you ended up diversifying? And at
what point did you diversify into these
other businesses?
>> So, a couple of thoughts. Uh um
I think through co like everyone sort of
started preaching like the you need
seven streams of income, you know, and
you got to do this.
>> Seven streams will make you a
millionaire. It's biggest myth out there
in the world.
>> It's such Seven streams of
income. You haven't become great at one
thing yet. And so you you everything
else is a red-headed stepchild. And so
sorry, [laughter] but but but
you get my point, right? Like like you
haven't you haven't mastered one thing
yet. like stop getting and today's day
and age with social media it is. It's
shiny object syndrome and you're seeing
everyone's else's highlight reel and and
you're just getting sucked into this
myth that that you're doing it all wrong
and you've got to go do something a
little more sexy. A lot of people have
even said to us, "We don't know how you
did it, but somehow you made roofing
sexy because all our people in shape,
they work out. We we we've created this
culture where it's like we can't be our
best until we are best for ourselves
first, right? And so that's sort of the
culture that we've built and we can be
our best for our customers, for our
vendors, for our suppliers, whatever it
is if we take care of ourselves first,
right? And I don't know everyone says
that, but do they actually do it right?
And so the the the seven streams of
income like like go become great at one
thing and then once you've made enough
money and you want to go put that money
to work, yeah, you can do that, right?
But know this, um, buying a portfolio
one house at a time is actually another
job and it will take away from your main
thing. So there's also other industries
out there that everyone sold everyone
that it's passive income. There's
nothing passive about that, right? Like
you're leasing a property, there's a
problem. You can't get hold of the
property management company if you have
one or if you're still small and you
don't. It's going to take time. And
every minute that you allocate to
something else, you're depriving that
main thing from becoming as great as it
could be. M
>> in 2022, you ended up having a sale at
your company for a healthy 9 figures.
Could you walk us through start to
finish, first of all, when you had that
realization that wait a minute, I I have
the potential to sell my company and
then eventually what that process was
like, you know, kind of start to finish
from when that money kind of hit the
account. Could you walk us through, you
know, again, first the realization of
when you knew that, hey, I'm going to go
from this is not just a profitable
company, but a real company that can
sell for a lot of money, and then kind
of what that exact process was like step
by step.
>> Sure. We'd experienced, you know, um, a
lot of good success pretty quickly. And
so, um, I was at a roofing convention in
Florida and I was with one of my
suppliers for lunch and he he said,
"Hey, I need to introduce you to that
guy. uh he just sold his company to
private equity and I'm like hm okay I
don't know much about that right and
once you learn you know how this private
equity thing works you start reflecting
on it and saying why didn't I learn
this sooner right I could go build this
business and get a multiple on that IATA
number it's really accelerated income
right if it's a 10x 10 years income
accelerated within that that number for
you and so I started doing some homework
on it started research searching it,
started talking to more and more people,
and I eventually met with our leadership
team, and I said, "We're going to we're
going to plan this thing and build it up
to actually take it to market and get
everyone a payday." Uh, and I tied some
people into the business. I'd made sure
um, and same thing when we joined
private equity, we've tied all our
leaders into the business cuz, you know,
uh, you sleep in the same bed, you share
the same dreams,
>> right? And uh
>> and so so we want to make sure that
we're all rowing in the same direction
and we don't want to be greedy. And so
because you know we could go do this
again. I could I could do this in the
pool business. I could do this in the
landscaping business. I could do it in
in whatever I want to do it in. Right.
And so we we went through this process
and then I found out another company
that had sold. I contacted the broker
that represented them because it's new
to the private equity space back then,
right? Newer. So, private equity didn't
understand it and buyers didn't
understand it well enough yet because
there's certain ways that you look at
how you how you count your revenue and
and how you get to those numbers, right?
And so, specifically on the insurance
side, so I hired a guy that had already
successfully sold a big roofing
business. Um, he's phenomenal and uh we
role played, role played, role played.
We analyzed the business. We looked at
what we needed to tighten up on. And
then we actually went to market with
that broker. We got an offer
and I was like, "No, I think we're worth
a whole lot more than that." And I met
with a team and the team actually said,
"No, we should take it. We join private
equity, join a group."
>> What was that offer?
>> Um,
[laughter]
it was it was lower than than uh nine
figures,
>> right? Not too far under it, but it was
just under, right? And I'm like, "No,
we're worth a whole lot more than that."
Um, and I met with a team and they were
like, cuz there's this excitement of
like joining a platform and a team and
having this massive financial backing
and how they're going to pour into the
business and and you get caught in this
like glitz and glam of joining a big
group. How
>> how did you know that you were worth
more than that? If I looked at everyone
else in the industry and what they were
doing and what we were doing and how
quickly we'd done it, I knew that we had
something special, right? And I felt
like if you were going to lump us in to
the same multiples that they were buying
all these companies at, I was like, "No,
we're way better than that." Right? Uh
what we've put together with our
training platform, with our recruiting
platform, how big we've become so
quickly by running this play and how we
can go reproduce this play all over the
country.
No, it's it's it's worth a lot more than
that. And so I met with a team and they
were like, "Yeah, we should do it." I'm
like, "We're not going to do it. We're
going to wait." And so we waited. We
went we spent another seven months
building, preparing, cleaning. We
learned that we learned from those
interviews with those companies more
about what they're looking for and what
the nuances were and learned more about
how do you maximize the value of your
business and all the small things that
you can do to get there, right? And so
we then went on a mission to go do that
and we went to market again and and we
got a couple of offers and we obviously
we went with the one. Uh, I could say
this, if you're planning on going with
private equity, it's a marriage.
All of a sudden, you you're calling the
shots and then all of a sudden you're
not
>> and most business owners aren't ready
for that. And so, you've got to be
someone that's very pliable
uh specifically for the bigger picture,
right? Our goal was to take over the
nation. We wanted to become the first
true national roofing company in
America. That was our goal. And when we
started looking the private equity uh uh
route, we felt that would be able to
that would help us accelerate achieving
that goal, but it would mean that we
would have to put our pride aside, maybe
not call the final shot on everything,
take some chips off the table, right?
Reinvest into it, which I did. And so
now the goal is to we've bought uh eight
businesses now and we have centralized
the businesses. We've integrated the
business. We've got them all on the same
CRM, same ERP, you know, and and so when
someone now looks to buy the group, um,
it's now one forward-f facing business.
As a matter of fact, in the next 30
days, all the brands names will be gone
and so it will just be one name uh,
nationally.
>> And you were you were in Vegas when that
sale actually happened?
>> I was. Yes.
>> What was going through your mind before
the money hit the account when you
closed the deal and you're there
refreshing? Can you what was that
experience like?
>> Yeah, look, we we we'd obviously started
and we were making good money at this
point, right? But, you know, for a guy
like me came in with 700 bucks to know
that you're about to get millions and
millions of dollars put into your bank
account, in some ways, you sort of sort
of still pinch yourself like, how did I
not learn this earlier? But you didn't
tell Josh yet that when it hit in Vegas,
you would put all the money on black.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I doubled.
>> You doubled? I doubled. [laughter]
>> Yeah. I wish. I wish.
>> Um, no, it was surreal, right? We did
the closing and me and my partner were
sitting there and we had it on speaker
and and if you've ever been on a closing
call, all the banks and O2 and all the
attorneys and all the accountants and
everyone that's worked on this deal is
on that line and everyone's sort of
like, "Okay, we good to go. We good to
go. You good? You good? Thank you,
everyone. Okay. Money will hit your bank
account in in a next hour or two. So, we
go downstairs and we're playing
blackjack and we're refreshing. I was
going to say you have to be refreshing.
>> Every couple of minutes you're
refreshing and you know and then uh you
know then obviously it hit then we had a
tequila.
>> Yeah. So,
>> did did you guys start to lose your mind
a little bit when that happened?
>> Uh not really. I I'm generally a pretty
even kill kind of guy. I sort of keep it
keep it internal. Uh, but we had a ton
of fun that day.
>> Yeah.
>> I was about to say like you that that
has to be one of the the probably top
five days of your of of your life if I
had imagined just like man like all my
hard work I I started I came here with
nothing and I have built something truly
great and now I have something to show
for of like hey all my hard work has
kind of paid off. So I'm I'm kind of
curious for you. you have
diversified into multiple different
service-based industries and now you're
doing it into one synonymous brand. Why
is that?
>> Larger equity firm, your billion dollar
funds uh don't want to buy a an
assembly.
So, you know, there is there's a lot of
guys that'll go out there and buy
companies and just give them some light
integration and then try flip them,
right? There's a couple of things that
have changed. the the debt markets have
changed. The expectations for buyers uh
larger equity firms at this point is
more diligence. You got to have you know
everything more streamlined, more
centralized, more integrated. their
expectation to pay you north of a
billion dollars for your platform um is
that it's one
company operating as one cohesively and
being highly successful, not an an
assembly of different brands.
And so it's sort of not a total
requirement but on in today's times
based on what's happening out there if
you want to maximize your return then
then getting everything as one is is
probably uh prudent. And if someone has
the dream similar to yours of exiting
their company one day, what are some of
those things that they should know about
what private equity are looking for in
order for them to package their business
in order to exit?
>> That's a that's a great question to add
on to that. You talked about you from
all those conversations you you look to
maximize. You learned, hey, how can we
maximize the value of that? I just
wanted to add that onto there. Like what
was it that you were like, how do we
maximize our enterprise value of what
we're building? Yeah, the biggest thing
is like how much meat is left on the
bone in this business,
right? Because remember if someone buys
it, they may buy it at a certain
multiple, say a 5x example. We got a lot
more than that, but a say a 5x, right?
Um they're going to go buy a bunch of
businesses at a 5x and then they're
going to want to sell that at a 10, 12,
14x, right? And then pay all the debt
off, keep the difference kind of thing,
right? I'm I'm really simple terms. It's
there's obviously a lot more to it than
that, right? And so um
I think the biggest thing is that you
have to show that that business can keep
trending
through the systems process and
leadership that you have built in that
business. And there's two thoughts to
that. Some folks go to market where they
have a successor in place and the owner
actually gets his payday and leaves. And
then there's the other side where the
equity group wants the owner to stay on
because they're integral to that
business. Um, and then over time, just
like myself in our group, over time as
you've put in far more infrastructure,
systems, and process, then that that
owner that sold, you know, you won't be
needed anymore, right? because the
business is now this massive operation
that can operate without you because
it's sort of automated. But if I were to
get a little more granular, uh, always
hire the best accountants, best
attorneys, get your contracts where they
need to be, spend the money, um, um, you
know, file your taxes the right way,
don't take shortcuts.
um your uh CRM, your data and your
accounting must be clean, not a bunch of
you know because remember when a lot of
folks start a business what do they
start doing when it comes to accounting
and money. They start cutting corners on
what is a write off and what's not a
write off and what's a business expense
and what's not and you know what's being
paid for out of the business on a
personal level. you know, is the car is
now paid for by the business and you
know, you got all these convoluting and
mixing of funds, right? That starts
creating gray. Um, do the right thing
with your customers and your people so
that you're not dealing with lawsuits
because if you're a business that's had
a bunch of lawsuits because you you it's
not important enough to you, that's
going to haunt you when you try to go to
market because no one's going to want to
buy a business that's had a lot of red
tape in it, right? Um, so yeah, I I I I
I think uh showing them that you have a
strong enough leadership team in place
for that business to keep growing
because if it can't keep growing and you
can't repeat it, I mean there's a couple
of things that they look at specifically
on the bigger businesses, right?
Geographical diversification,
right? Can you take that model, whatever
it is, and go reproduce it in many
different markets? And have you done
that in one or two markets to show that
what you've done in your primary market
actually works in other markets? So,
you're you're you've got more geography
on the map. You'll get a bigger
multiple. Uh, and this is like simple
stuff, right? Um, and then uh if you're
a slightly bigger business, have you
done any acquisitions, right? So you can
grow your business through green
fielding new locations. You could grow
your business through acquisitions,
right? And then you've got to show that,
hey, now we've we we can prove that we
can go replicate this because now
they're like, this is a massively
massive opportunity because they're
successful. They got a great leadership
team in play. They've proven that they
can reproduce it in other markets. They
brought in one or two other companies.
Like the leadership team is phenomenal.
we can keep growing this thing, right?
We can now take this business and go
bolt on a bunch of other businesses and
get them to do it their way, right?
Because if you have the business, you
are then called the platform. And so if
they buy you first, you're called the
platform. And so now they go buy a bunch
of other businesses and plug them into
your business as the platform. And in a
lot of cases, those businesses that
you're buying is on a lower multiple
than the platform.
and they have areas of opportunity.
Maybe their stuff isn't as clean, maybe
their systems aren't as great, but
you're going to get penalized on that in
your multiple, right? And so now we
already have a role model on how it
works and what it needs to look like.
And we could just bring all these
businesses in and implement what you
guys are doing to be successful within
all those businesses and then turn it
into one big business.
>> We've talked a ton about business on
this podcast.
>> Yeah.
But I want to ask for everyone that's
listening out there, especially they're
trying to go into entrepreneurship, high
performer, what's the best piece of
non-b businessiness advice that you
would want to give them?
>> It's a simple answer. It's just be a
good person.
Like, can you really go wrong if you
wake up each day, you're good to your
family, good to your wife, good to your
kids, you work hard, you got a good
attitude,
right?
I said this the other day. There's no
such thing as business problems. Just
personal problems that roll into the
business.
>> I was I was going to have you that up.
>> You're shitty at home. You're shitty at
work. But guess what most people are
doing? They're leading different lives.
A life at home and a life at work. And
the businesses that truly struggle to
grow, you're in a fishbowl. Your people
see it. You're thinking you're pulling
the wool over their eyes. specifically
the talented ones. They can sniff it
out. They can see it. You're leading two
lives. And what's happening is who you
really are is starting to bleed into the
business. And it does over time, right?
And so, um, I say, so in in my office, I
have a sofa and two chairs. And I spent
more of my time coaching
success and the challenges that success
bring specifically in the personal life
to keep people on track as opposed to
failure
because everyone focuses on failure,
right? And earlier you spoke about like
how did you separate the business and
recruiting and teams? And I know we're
going to go back into business quick,
but but I've always felt that like if if
I can coach people to do better in their
personal lives, we're going to have a
much better business. And if I live what
I tell them and they see it,
it's genuine, it's real, and it becomes
powerful. They have a lot of faith in
you as a leader as well. We interviewed
a gentleman who talked about how, you
know, when Abraham Lincoln wanted to cut
down a cherry tree, he'd spend for,
let's say, it takes five hours to do
that, he would spend the first four
hours sharpening the axe before he was
going to cut down the tree. And he
equated that like all those things in
your personal life that you do to live a
really great life to not only take care
of yourself but your family, your
physical fitness, the way that you carry
yourself, your moral code, those all
those things are sharpening the axe for
when you have have that exact hour where
you have to perform as a leader in
business. It's the sharpest axe that you
wield and carry. Yeah.
>> So I I almost equate it to that.
>> Yeah.
>> It's simple and everyone says it, but
they don't live They don't live it.
Yeah.
>> Another thing, you know, first of all,
that's got to be one of my favorite
quotes. Let me make sure I nail this one
down. You said that you don't believe in
business problems, just problems in your
personal life that carry over to your
business.
>> No such thing as business problems, just
personal problems that roll into the
business.
>> I love that. Another principle that you
do believe in is that money doesn't
necessarily change people. You believe
that it amplifies them even more. So in
this sense, we were talking about this
earlier about how if somebody's a
genuinely shitty person and they come
into step into a lot of money, they're
it's not going to necessarily change
them for the better. Vice versa, if
somebody's a great person at the core
and they're broke and they're a hustler,
if they come into money, they're going
to chances are in most cases you would
say use that money for good. Do you
think that money changes people or just
amplifies the person who you are?
>> I think it could probably be both. I
think uh depending on where you're at in
your life, I could probably see how
someone super young that hasn't matured
enough that could let that that maybe a
good person but could let that ego get
massively inflated by that by that
money. And so that's that's a maturity
and and and sort of you know too much
too fast where where people don't know
how to handle it. But we see that in
life in a lot of things, right? We see
that with uh pro sports people. We see
that with people that win the lottery.
We see that you you just cuz you got a
bunch of money in the bank account
doesn't mean you're going to get to keep
it, right? Um and if you make a lot of
bad choices over a period of time, that
money's gone. And we've seen this over
and over and over again, right? And I
think I said this earlier where um you
know it it's it's it's
not it's not necessarily about the money
that you make. It's about who you become
along the way. And I'll tell you why.
Because who you become along the way, if
you're uh someone that has respect uh
trust, loyalty, and work ethic, right?
those things will compound in your life
over and over a lot longer than a
paycheck,
right? And I know that's like extremely
simple, but but the compounding effects
of being that good person, working hard
and applying yourself will always pay
you back. Even if you lost all your
money, you'll make money again. But if
you were someone that just got lucky and
made some money but didn't have those
things, there are odds that you'll lose
it, but you'll never make it back
because it's not compound.
>> We like to end these podcasts off with
two questions for our guests. So Kurt,
I'll start and Jack will end it. If uh
if me and you died tomorrow and you had
one more guiding principle to leave with
the younger generation, what would that
be? Just one more sentence, word of
advice to them, you know, that they'll
take with them for the rest of their
lives. What would that be?
>> Figure out how to eliminate the
distractions, right? If you think about
a racehorse,
right? Uh they they put those on them
for a very is a simple lesson. It's a
very good lesson, but it in today's day
and age, kids are just so exposed to so
much. If you're that person that can can
get laser focused and eliminate that
noise,
uh you you can't go wrong and
go do the shitty stuff. Stop chasing the
cool stuff that everyone's chasing. Go
find something that's shitty. Look,
knocking doors is shitty. Plumbing's not
super exciting dealing with Like
there's there's a lot of things that you
could go do that that are shitty that no
one wants to do anymore and you could
create a lane for yourself. That that's
what I say.
>> So your favorite piece of advice is to
follow your passion.
>> No, not at all. [laughter]
No. Uh where's passion created? How is
it created? How do you become passionate
about something? If you think about it
really when someone says, "Hey, I'm
passionate about cars. I'm passionate
about watches. I'm passionate about
whatever it is, right? It generally
comes from your upbringing. Generally
comes from exposure. Exposure to
something over a period of time creates
a passion. And in most cases, it happens
as a kid because you smiled when there
was a race car on TV and then they
bought you a toy and you smiled some
more and then you be you grow up like
I'm passionate about cars. But it was
really just exposure which proves to
show that we could become passionate
about anything if we created enough
exposure for ourselves. And as adults
when we turn 18, we now have the ability
to place ourselves in whatever we want
to get the exposure we want to become
passionate about it. Screw following
your passion. No doubt. If you've worked
hard and developed a business and you've
been successful and you now have money
just like the investments and you want
to go spend time and money and your
passion at that point, go do it. But it
doesn't have to be your business.
>> I' I've never heard such a simple
concept like follow your passion like
broken down that are you have you always
been a deep thinker? Yeah, I think about
this like because I think about me
and I think about why I've done certain
things and [clears throat] how did I get
that? And so I I always try and break it
down to like where does it even come
from and why are we this way? Um I
haven't written a book. Everyone always
said, "Hey, write a book. Write a book.
Write a book." And um I' I've always
like hey I've got to be in my mind
[snorts]
hyper successful to have earned the
right to write a book cuz through co
everyone's like yeah get a ghost writer
write a book because it makes you like
the the specialist in the industry that
you're in like the the the source that
people go to right but but you haven't
done anything to back that up. Words are
just words and you probably stole them
somewhere else. And so for that reason,
I've never done it. And I and I may
never do it. But something I've always
thought about from a book perspective is
as we're thinking about and talking
about stuff, I just haven't found the
right answers yet. And hopefully someone
can solve this. There's a lot of answers
to this. And that is
why do most poor people stay poor?
>> I I I have my answer.
>> Yeah. I there's a saying that I love
that um most people are addicted to
education but allergic to execution.
All they do is scroll all day versus go
and get after it themselves. I just
think that they're allergic to taking
action and execution.
But you could place them in an
environment where you tell them tell
them show them train them tell them and
they still self-sabotage. I'm gonna go
with the like belief system. That that's
one of the first things that I kind of
think of is like
a lot of people think things are so out
of reach when in reality because they
start with the end result and like what
the outcome could be when in reality
most people just are just so hesitant to
just take that first step and just put
one foot in front of the other. So for
me, I think it's a lot of people's
belief system, but I there's no way
that's the uh
>> I look I still think I still think
there's more to it that we haven't
really figured out yet. You're not
wrong. The belief system is a big part
of it, right? But it's too easy. Belief
system didn't grow up with good
examples, didn't have money, uh parents
had a negative attitude. It's been
instilled in them, so they don't have
the belief system. I I can't believe
it's that easy. Maybe it is. I don't
know. Go ahead.
Well, the the answer is not that simple
because there's so many pe you know,
everybody's dealt with a different set
of cards when they when they start. You
know, the game it's almost like if you
look at the game of life, you're dealt
with a different set of cards. And you
know, every now and then you hear of a
story of somebody that came from nothing
that dealing with the cards that they
had, they still made something of
themselves. Um, but most people just
don't look to change their cards. I I I
I really don't know.
>> Yeah. Think about it this way. We all
talk to ourselves. We all have that
inner person thing. We talk to
ourselves, right? I can't believe
that there really really is someone that
truly believes the thought that they
don't. And it's not about money. People
always say this when I talk about this.
They're like, "Oh, it's just about the
money." No, it's not.
Um,
there's another expression that says,
"Do you want to be right or do you want
to be rich?" Which one?
you choose. The owner of the business
that I worked in drummed that into my
head because when I was younger, I
wanted to be right all the time. And he
eventually just said to me, said, "Man,
you just got to make that decision. You
want to be right or do you want to be
rich?"
>> What's the What's the difference between
the two of those?
>> Well, when we say rich, we don't just
mean money. We rich in friends, rich in
family, rich in in life,
or do you want to be right? Because some
people I've had a lot of people reach
out to me. Hey Kurt, can you coach me?
Hey Kurt, can you work with me on this?
Hey, K, can you work? And then there's
been one or two people that I've
actually helped. But when I'm trying to
help them,
when I say, hey, why don't you do this?
Why don't you do that? Why don't you do
this? Why don't you do that? No, I've
done that. I've done this. I've done
that. And I eventually start saying to
myself, I don't even know why you're
sitting in front of me because I don't
believe that you've done everything. And
I and you don't want to listen to me.
You'd rather be right and prove me
wrong, yet you don't have the success to
back it up yet. And I can't believe that
you've done everything I'm telling you.
>> Wow.
>> Wow. Yeah.
>> It's that is incredible because you know
what's so crazy is is we'll meet with
some some people sometimes and they will
ask us for our help or opinion on what
they should do given their certain
situation. A and
>> I finally got an answer to his question.
>> Yeah. Go ahead.
>> No.
Broke broke people they know everything.
You you can't teach them anything.
>> You can't.
>> You can't teach them [laughter]
broke. You can't you give them input,
advice, no matter how much success or
proof of concept you may have, they just
don't want to help themselves. They're
like, uh, I've tried it, doesn't work.
Or it's like, well, maybe the way you
went about it just isn't the right way.
Or maybe the messaging was wrong or
maybe the system itself is broken. It's
like tried it, not going to work or did
that, you know, I just it's just not
going to work for me. And they, like you
said, they just don't want to help
themselves. my uh my stepdad, he passed
uh at a younger age, but um he just
couldn't keep a job. And we lived he
worked for the railways. We lived in
this little shack with a tin roof on the
side of the railway lines cuz you if you
worked at the railways, you got one of
those shitty little houses, right? And
he always went from job to job to job.
And guess what? It was always
someone else's fault. Always.
It It's like, "Hey, when we look, we
keep looking out the window. When are we
going to look in the mirror?"
>> It's a Well, it's almost like, you know,
if you're d if someone with their dating
history, it's like they they jump from
one relationship to the next and it's
always the other person's fault. It's
like maybe you were the problem the
entire time.
>> Yeah. But I still don't think we've
cracked the code.
>> Right. And so I'm going to keep digging
on this until until I can figure out the
code. And maybe it's a bunch of things
>> in one just based on the
>> that one. That one's pretty damn close
though. They they always got to be
right. You can't teach them anything.
>> That might be the book. [laughter]
>> The book right here.
>> I have some people.
>> I have some people that I know that like
I want to shake. I'm like, "Dude, you're
always right.
>> You're always right. Yet you're always
asking me for money." I I I have some
friends that I guess they they asked us
for advice with their business and and
social media and and I think I've
probably said the advice like probably
like five or six times over the course
of two years and they just haven't
changed it and I just guar I'm telling
them I'm like you make that one change
it's going to change everything in your
business and uh it just doesn't happen.
You know, most folks look at you guys
being successful, me or anyone else, and
they look at them and say, "They got
lucky.
They got they got a break. They got that
one guy or knew a guy that you guys
interviewed that put you on the map,
right? It's the overnight success,
right? I worked at corporate America for
20 years and I opened up a roofing
company and everyone in the roofing
industry is like, "How'd you do it?
Overnight success?" No, it's the 20
years prior to that that helped me make
decisions and choices running the
business. Some people even said, "Don't
you wish you did it early?" I said, "No,
because I had too many lessons to
learn."
>> There's value in that right there
because we were just having this
conversation the other day. Um, which is
that, you know, hey, you know, we
started this channel 5 years ago. We've
scaled it up to where it's doing over a
million dollars a month across all of
our businesses. And Josh had, you know,
brought up, he said, "Guys, if we were
to go back 5 years ago when we were
first starting, you know, the the
company, the channel, because I mean,
our first year or two, we were we we we
didn't know business." You know what I
mean? I was talking to you in the car on
the way over here that, you know, great
businessmen are terrible content
creators. Great content creators are
terrible businessmen. We were great
content creators, sucked at business.
Got a lot better at it over time because
we wanted to learn and we weren't afraid
of to let experts give us the direction.
But he asked he pro proposed the
question to the two of It's like guys,
what what would you have told ourselves
when we were starting out? And you know,
me and him started to kind of share some
thoughts about, oh, I would have told us
to do this and oh, not try and start
that business, what not. And and Josh
had a great point, which is that, you
know what, guys, I actually I don't
think so because you needed to go
through it. And it's just like you're
talking about a lot of people say, you
know, what would you have done
differently or whatnot or would you have
started it sooner, but it's like, no,
no, no. You needed to go through that to
to build the experience, the knowledge,
the expertise to actually do it the
right way. And sometimes you have to go
through it. You got to you got to what
is it? You got to go through it to grow
through it.
>> That's right. Yeah.
>> Jack, take us home.
>> Absolutely. All right, Kurt, how old are
you now?
>> 52.
>> 52. And if it was all said and done
tomorrow, how would you want to be
remembered?
>> Uh, how much impact did I make uh for
those folks that um were like me, right?
like like I'm always out there like
talking to kids, talking to people. I go
to all these car shows, people always
coming up to me and I'm always sharing.
I've traveled to companies to help them
for free. I I I've always had this
mindset. At one point I was in a
leadership group. Um I used to speak. I
used to go to all the meetings. I used
to always give give give. Uh and I think
if we could just do that, right? And and
it's it's so I don't chase like a lot of
people like what do you want your legacy
to be? Um I'm not chasing a legacy.
If think about it most people like well
I want to do it for this or I want to do
it for that. Like no no no no I know
that if I just do
they there will be one right but I'm not
chasing that legacy. Like some people
are so caught up on like, yeah, I really
want to like leave my stamp here or
leave my stamp there. Um,
it's different and it's very
controversial the way that I think about
it because in in in some ways it's it's
a massive it can be a massive ego too.
And I think if folks get too fixated on
it, it could hurt them,
right? So I sort of think about it a
little differently. I'm not chasing
that. But but uh I think if you do the
right things, it'll happen anyway.
Kurt, this was phenomenal and it has
genuinely been such a pleasure to ask
you questions all day. Man, I just want
to say thank you so much for your time
and for being with us today, man. It
means so much to us. And
>> thank you.
>> You know, uh for everybody watching
right now, be sure to like and subscribe
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast for
amazing content, amazing guests, amazing
episodes every week with some of the
most incredible business owners just
like our man Kurt right here. We're
going to put the link down in the
description to all of Kurt's social
media so you can follow along with him.
And hopefully the next time we do this,
we'll put a link down to your book as
well with all that with all that
knowledge and expertise, man, because
this was this was excellent, man. I
really appreciate you. And lastly, guys,
do yourselves a massive favor, guys. Go
down and click the link in the
description of this video to join the
school of mentors. The most powerful
entrepreneur community and network in
the world with over 7,000 entrepreneurs
that get direct access to the 8, nine,
and 10 figureure entrepreneurs we
interview here on this channel where you
will ask your questions directly to them
on live calls we host every single week
and they give you the answers. So, we
can't wait to see you on the inside.
With that being said, we'll see you in
the next episode.
