Your business is doing over $20 million
a year right now.
>> Yeah.
>> Come on.
>> Like I'm so like weary and shy about
stuff like that, but we're doing pretty
well. [music]
>> And what's the most amount of money the
business made in 30 minutes?
>> A million.
>> You did a million dollars in 30 minutes.
[snorts] Jalisa Seymour built an 8
figureure empire by owning one of the
biggest soap companies in America.
>> I just always had that dog in me. Like I
always had it. Like I'm like I'm going
to do it. So I don't play. Like yeah,
I'm cute and all, but I don't play.
>> Jisa, what do [music] you think keeps
people broke? That's a great question.
Actually, no one's ever asked me that.
So, looking at
>> Wow.
>> You started this company with $67.
[music]
>> I feel like this podcast has been a
testament to look, if I don't have a
seat to the table, I'm going to build
the damn table.
>> Yes. [music] I'm going to build the
table. And I promise you, it doesn't
even have to come with the legs. I don't
build a leg. Get me a Find me a tree
somewhere. I'm going to cut it down.
>> Chop some wood.
>> Okay. Let me chop some wood.
>> 31 years old today. If all [music] four
of us sitting here died tomorrow and you
could leave one last message with the
younger generation, what would that be?
M.
What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh.
We are out in Miami, Florida with an
incredible entrepreneur, Jalisa Seymour,
who built an 8 figureure empire by
owning one of the biggest soap companies
in America. You became wealthy selling
soap. Is that correct?
>> Yes. The introduction itself was heavy.
Thank you so much, James. I appreciate
it.
>> No, we appreciate you being here. You
know, we all came in to to make this
happen and really inspire a lot of
people. But what I think is fascinating,
everybody sees Chapter 20. They see the
multiple eight figure business you've
done today. Your business is doing over
$20 million a year right now.
>> Yeah.
>> Come on.
>> Like I'm so like weary and shy about
stuff like that, which I don't know
where that mentality came from, but it's
like dang, I don't want to I don't want
to share it, but we're doing pretty
well.
>> And what's the most amount of money the
business made in 30 minutes?
>> A million.
>> You did a million dollars in 30 minutes.
That's fascinating. We're going to dive
into it today.
>> Where I want to get started is again,
everybody sees chapter 20, they see the
multiple 8 figureure business you built.
Now, you started this company with $67.
How in the world did you realize that
you were going to build an empire
selling soap online?
>> Man, the demand grew greater than I
could have ever imagined. So, I started
giving out soap samples to my friends
and I gave them to my roommates. As you
know, I started it in my college dorm. I
was going to UCF. I was a senior in
college. And I gave it to them. They
were like, "This is really good." like I
want you to sell this. So I started
giving it out to my classmates and they
were like whatever you put in this soap,
it's magical. And that was the thought
for me. I was like, you know what, maybe
I should really make this a thing. Like
the demand was there. Like girls wanted
it. They needed it. They saw how it
impacted their lives and it changed
their confidence like drastically. So I
was like, you know what, I should make
this a business. And that idea itself
was like,
>> okay, you know what? If I can just
distribute this, this will go. And as
soon as I was able to sell it, it
completely sold out every single time
consistently.
>> But what I think is fascinating is you
took a personal need that you had, which
is, you know, improving women's hygiene,
right? That you dealt with and all of
your other, you know, female friends
were ultimately dealing with, but what
was the incentive to go and create like
you're an inventor in this sense, right?
You invented this soap. How did you go
about figuring out like what ingredients
ultimately went into this to where you
could sell this and help a lot of
people, millions of people around the
world?
>> That's a great question. Actually, no
one's ever asked me that. So the
ingredients I always look for was what
did I want to heal? So I wanted to treat
odor. I wanted to treat women who dealt
with recurring BV, yeast infections,
UTI, like the things that we have to
deal with that only our OBGYNS would
know or your partner would know or you
yourself would know. But it's not
something that you wanted to speak about
publicly because there's shame attached
to it. There's shame attached to odor.
There's shame attached to BV, you know,
things like that. So as soon as I just
was like, let me just be open about it.
Like let me share it. It's no big deal.
Like this is natural. Women deal with it
all the time. I knew like so many other
women could benefit from it. That's why
I was like, you know what? Let me share
this gift.
>> I didn't want to keep it to myself.
>> But to be able to parlay this invention
and turn it into an 8 figureure
business, like where did the business
acumen come from? Like were your parents
entrepreneurial? Like who taught you the
business side of things?
>> No. So I didn't even come from
entrepreneurship. My mom was a
radiologist. My grandfather was a
teacher. My grandmother was a librarian.
I just always had that dog in me. Like I
always had it like I'm like I'm going to
do it. I've always worked my entire time
through college. I was like always
purposely like I don't want to be broke.
I want to be able to create a life for
myself. Even though I was in college and
high school, I always had that
mentality. Um I just didn't know that I
would be a multi-millionaire. Like I
always knew I wanted to be great and
have success, but that dollar amount, it
never hit my mind because it's something
I had never seen before. No one in my
proximity had ever done it. No one in my
family, my lineage has ever done
anything like that. So that idea was so
far-fetched. When I first started, I
said, I give myself seven years to be a
millionaire because the idea was so big
to me, but I did it in a year. So, that
just showed me like this is something
that was way beyond my way beyond what I
thought I could do for myself. This was
God all the way.
>> Starting a business with just $67 in
college with like no entrepreneurial
experience. At what point in the
business's journey were you just kind of
like, man, I really have something here.
This isn't just like a college side
hustle anymore. like this is an a real
legit business and I'm gonna take it to
the moon. What was that moment like? And
what was kind of the company? What did
it look like at that time?
>> It's so many moments and I'm going to
share a few. Um this is kind of funny,
but when I started selling on Facebook,
people were fighting in the comments
like,
>> "No, you better not take all the soap
because I only could make small
batches." And people were really arguing
online. It was viral on Twitter like,
"You guys are taking up all the soap. We
can't ever have any for ourselves." I
was like, "Y'all, it's just soap." But
it wasn't. You guys were selling out.
>> We were selling out within 5 minutes.
And it would take me at least 2 weeks to
make all of the soap. I was making it at
my mom's house at that time. I had moved
from my college dorm to my mom's house
cuz I needed more space. And my my
roommates were tired of me at that
point. They're like, "Come on, y'all.
Like, you're destroying the kitchen."
[laughter]
So, I started at my mom's
house. I was making soap. It would take
me about 2 weeks to make it. I would
heat seal every single bar. And I
realized I was on to something when
people were really fighting to purchase
and they were getting upset about it.
And I would look at the um because on
Shopify you can see the visitors. At one
point there was 18,000 people on my
website. 1201 I would launch at I would
launch at noon once a month. By 12:01 it
was 18,000 people on my website. I was
like what?
>> How long was this until you launched the
business?
>> This was about 7 months in.
>> Wow.
>> Maybe 7 months in. Yeah. It was very
quick. That's why I was like oh I'm on
to something because it grew so fast and
it was out of my control. The only thing
I needed to do was hire people at that
point.
>> Yeah.
>> And you have a very interesting
philosophy on hiring people. What is
that?
>> Oh, yeah. So, I'm really big on hiring
slow, but firing very fast. And you
learn because I had to learn the hard
way with people. Sometimes you see the
good in people. You see the potential in
people. And I'm no longer hiring for
potential. I'm hiring for what is your
capacity? What can you do? What can you
show me right now? And sometimes you can
look at a person and see something that
they don't see in themselves. Like for
my assistant, she was my assistant. Now
she's my chief of staff, but I already
saw she was a leader by nature. She
would take initiative. She already knew
how to think before I could think about
something. In those cases, yes. But when
it comes to hiring, I'm very, very
diligent and I'm very careful with who I
bring onto my team.
>> I'm curious on that, right? Is you're
like, "Hey, I need to bring in people
with expertise and I'm running this
business out of my mom's house at this
point." At what point were you like,
"Okay, I need to go talk to a
manufacturer, someone that can actually
bring this to the next level." Did you
have like a mentor or someone that
helped you kind of get to that next
level?
>> I never had a mentor. Till this day,
eight years in, I've never had a mentor.
I've never had a coach. However, I've
had I have a wealthy group of friends.
And when I say wealthy, it's not money.
It's just they have so much wisdom. And
a lot of them have multi- multi-million
dollar businesses, of course. But that
came with me going to networking events
and shaking hands and being open to
maintaining new relationships because
we're always taught like no new friends.
Mm- not when you're growing a business.
like you have to be open to making new
friends, shaking hands with people that
you typically wouldn't talk to. So
that's what really helped me. But in
terms of mentorship, I had a family who
believed in me so much. They would
always be like, "Whatever you need, I'm
here." So I didn't have the thought of
like manufacturing and all that on a
grand scale. Like of course I had help
with manufacturing, but that was all
internal. Like that was all family, you
know. But as I grew, as the years grew
on, yes, I was able to find that because
I was so scared of my formula being
released to the wrong person. I I wanted
to keep it in my family. I'm like, I can
only trust a few people with this
formula. But as we grew, I can't
bottleneck my business. So, as soon as I
realized I can only go as far as I let
it, I said, you know what? Let me
relinquish control and let me just let
this thing grow the way that God
intended for it to be. And now I'm able
to have a manufacturer and I'm able to
have my own warehouse and my own team.
We can ship in-house. We can make
products in house. And everything's done
here in Florida, too.
>> With this formula that you developed,
I'm sure that as it really started to
get traction and you had customers
lining up selling out your products, I'm
sure you had people that tried to copy
you as well.
>> Oh, man. And till this day, I mean, I've
had brands literally copy every single
thing verbatim. Um, there's a brand who
has my same yoni gel with poppy seeds.
Although I invented it, there's brands
who literally will copy the entire
thing, not even change the name or the
ingredient deck or the description even
on the website.
>> How does that make you feel?
>> So, at first I used to be really upset
about it. But then as I've grown older
and I understand my calling, I'm like
there's there will never be another Salt
XO. There will never be another me. So,
you can do it and that's okay, but it
will never be me and it will never be
what I what I brought to the table. So,
authenticity always wins and you can't
make a move until I do. So it's no
worries for me.
>> Guys, we're about to be right back to
the episode. Before we do that, look, I
want to talk about one specific company
today that you could be using on a daily
basis to save yourself time, money,
[music]
people, and energy. And it's called High
Level. For starters, it can send your
prospective clients to a landing page.
So that way with all the traffic that
you're getting, you can automatically
create a landing page with High Level
that it sends all that [music] traffic
to. Then once you get that traffic, High
Level also has a calendar feature where
you can automatically create a calendar
where your prospective [music] clients
can come in and book calls to talk to
your sales reps. And beyond that, the
feature that I think is the most
important is it will automatically
follow up with all of these prospective
clients and people coming in to learn
more and potentially buy from your
business. Yes, you can send emails, you
can send text messages, you can send
announcements directly to these people
so that way you never lose a single
dollar on a deal. And if you don't know
what to say to these clients, right?
Like if you're kind of lost on how you
should respond or get back to these
people, they have a powerful AI tool
that can create templates [music] and
give you the right messaging to respond
back to these clients so that way you
actually close the deal. So if you want
to get access and start using High Level
to change your business, the trajectory
of your business, your life, and your
family's life, go down right now, click
the link in the description of this
video, and start using High Level today.
And with that being said, let's get back
to the episode. I want to talk real
quick about the the hiring aspect as
well, right? There's that saying and
they these guys preach about it all the
time that the same people that are going
to get you to 100,000 a year are not
going to get you to a million a year let
alone 10 and 20 million and eight
figures a year. So who were some of the
most important the most critical hires
that you made to the business whether
they were in charge of check technology
whether they were in charge of finances
like who were would you say the most
important maybe two or three people that
you hired that helped you scale out to
eight figures? I would say my ads
manager, he helped me scale. Um because
we were organic for years and I
introduced paid marketing and it helped
us scale tremendously. Um my sister who
runs logistics at my warehouse, she
handles the entire thing. She's only 24.
She's a beast. You have to meet her.
She's incredible. Um she manages over 30
employees.
>> So she's she's incredible and she's that
is the only way I'm able to grow and
maintain two to three day shipping
because of her. and she created the
entire um like schedule within like uh
OSHA and all those things like she
>> she's a beast she's incredible.
>> Yeah. So those two people have been
pivotal in my business for sure.
>> You had mentioned something earlier that
I want to touch on uh that you you know
didn't necessarily have a lot of mentors
but you got around a lot of wealthy
friends. Uh and so we always like to
talk about like proximity is power.
>> Yes. Uh and and so we we always like to
tell people like, hey, you need to get
out of your hometown and go to where
people are making things happen and
getting around people in the right
rooms. Like when did you kind of have
that realization when it's just like,
hey, like I need to be getting around
other people who are making things
happen.
>> So I think that comfort is
I don't know. It's kind of like smoking
mirrors and I'm really big on being
planted in the right soil. When you
realize that you are not planted in the
right soil, not only will you not bloom,
but everything else around you will
start to look foreign. It will start to
like, who are these people? They don't
belong here because you don't belong.
And you might feel ostracized. You might
feel like an outlier, but I just was in
the wrong soil. And I needed to branch
out. I needed to be around people that
thought like me, who were even
progressive thinkers who thought of
things that I typically wouldn't think
about. Um, and that happened as I was
going to networking events, meeting
millionaires. Before I was a
millionaire, I was shaking hands with
millionaires. I didn't have any ego. You
can't have an ego, especially when
you're building a business. There's no,
"Oh, I don't want to do this. I don't I
never I was at entrepreneur networking
events eight months pregnant." And they
were all concerned like, "Are you about
to have this baby? If I have the baby,
as as long as I'm learning while I'm
doing it, let's deliver the baby." But I
always had that zeal inside of me. I'm
like, "Let's go." J
>> James brought up about copycats. Uh was
there ever a point in time or any like
big brands, like you were obviously a
disruptor in the industry.
like people that like saw what you were
doing in the space and try to come after
your product or anything like that.
>> Yeah, for sure. I literally would look
now and see a replica and even on um Tik
Tok now like there's so many variations
of my product there and it doesn't
bother me. I just keep scrolling. People
will send it to me and when I was
younger cuz I started my business very
young, naturally it would upset me. But
now it's like water off my back. I'm not
worried about it because I'm in my own
lane. And I'm focused. And when you're
focused, you don't care about the
background noise. I don't care about the
background. That's right.
>> And you're the creator. They're not
going to be able to innovate like you
either.
>> Exactly. I'm an innovator.
>> I mean, I think about it like our
platform as well. I mean, there's
millions of people that are trying to do
our format at the end of the day. Like,
I just have so many ideas on how we can
just take it to the next level that, you
know, you can copy the questions, the
walk up, see all that all you want. It
just it's like good luck. Yeah. Good
luck.
>> And you're and you're him. Like, you are
the standard. When people think about
it, they always hear your voice and they
always have to kind of match your
cadence and match the way you the walk
and the the way you deliver questions.
You have to you have to mirror the
greats.
>> Yeah, 100%.
>> And when you're when you set the tone as
a great, people are going to copy you,
>> Jalisa, we got to be honest. We still
got to we got to crush them though. You
know what I'm saying?
>> Oh, I'm crushing. OH, NO, NO, NO.
LISTEN, WE'RE pounding them now. Hold on
now. This this [laughter] isn't this
isn't like Hey, let's be No, we're going
hard.
>> Like I just was at Invest. shut
investments completely down. Um, we
branded every single bathroom. We
branded every single um, gala VIP night.
We were on the stage. I mean, it was a
salt ex I called it a saltfest and
Investfest has over 30,000 people there
and everywhere you turned it was Salt
XO. So, I don't play like, yeah, I'm
cute and all, but
>> but that in itself that in itself is
just such an organic marketing strategy
right there. Could you tell us your
philosophy on marketing and brand
building, right? Because I know that we
talked about it earlier today. You
realized that obviously it was extremely
important to double down on organic
marketing. Then when you put the paid
ads on top of that, it just added so
much fuel to the fire. What is your
philosophy on marketing and taking that
brand to the next level?
>> You have to dominate
>> in marketing. You can't you can't play
nice. There is no, hey, um, you know, I
just want to I just want to be passive.
There is no I'm not passive. I'm so
sorry. Like when you walk to the
bathroom at the Georgia World Congress
Center, you couldn't help but see us
outside of the bathroom. I had balloons
and stickers all over the walls, the
floor, the bathroom doors. Everywhere
you turn, you're going to see Sodexo. I
want Sodexo to be I want people to be so
overwhelmed with Sodexo. It's like,
dang, another Sodexo commercial. Yes.
>> Dang, another Sodexo ad. Yes. I have
people come up to me and they're like, I
can't scroll on TikTok without seeing a
Sodexo ad. That's the point. I'm going
to smother you in Sodexo until you make
a decision to change your life.
>> And when they do, they don't back away
from it. We have a excellent retention
rate. Our customers stay with us,
>> right? But I think this is a very
important lesson for entrepreneurs here.
At what point do you put paid ads on the
organic marketing? Like how long were
you doing organic? Right? You launched
what, seven, eight years ago, the
business you were doing organic for how
many years [clears throat] up until you
realized that, hey, if we put paid ads
behind this, it's already converting
organically. At what point do you think
the business owner should pay put paid
ads on top of the organic content?
>> Okay, so this sounds like an anomaly,
but I did organic for about five years.
and we've been in business for eight. So
everything was organic for 5 years. And
I think it's because that's all I knew.
But when social media changed, you know,
the landscape of social media changed,
like everyone started doing ads and, you
know, making content, I was like, "Okay,
well, I need to put a little bit more
push and drive into it." So, as soon as
I um allowed myself to have influencers
and UGC and ads and, you know, making
like um little Tik Toks and live videos,
I saw my business skyrocket and it
didn't take long. So, I think it's a
really good decision to put ads on as
soon as you have the money to and you
have the awareness of who your customer
is. But, I think you should start
organic first because sometimes people
just go straight to the money, straight
to let me pay for it. No, build some
trust first. like let people see like
the process and who you are. And
sometimes that might be the that might
not be the story for every single brand
owner, but I think that for Sodex, it
was important because we sell intimate
wash. I want to be able to tell a very
authentic story and then let you know
let the trust build up from there. But
as soon as I realized that, I was like,
"Yeah, it's time to put some money
behind this stuff."
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Something that I just keep
thinking about is you were pregnant at a
young age and most people like women
will use that as an excuse as to, hey,
I'm going to go the safe route. I can't
do that.
>> But you did you did the opposite. Would
you say having a child at a younger age
gave you actually that fuel to push on
and be like, look, it's not just for me,
it's for us now.
>> Yeah. And that's a beautiful question
because um a lot of moms get discouraged
when they have a child because they
think that their life is over or they
think that their life will slow down. My
life actually catapulted when I had a
child. Um everything started to to
blossom for me. And I think yes, you
have that desire to, hey, I want to
create this life for my children, but
you have to want to do it for yourself
first. Because I think a lot of moms
feel guilt and shame for wanting to do
something for them. But I pride myself
on I'm going to do this for me and they
will they will of course benefit from
the fruit of it, but it's for me. And
then they're going to they're going to
see their mom work hard and I'm going to
pass down these traits of discipline and
discernment and respect and kindness.
Like they're going to watch me navigate
the world. So that's what it is for for
me. Like it's not really about, hey, I
want to pass this down to them the
business, but I want to pass down my
characteristics, my traits, how I handle
people so that they can build their own
businesses because I don't plan on just
giving them anything. I want them to be
able to work for it. Cuz if they don't,
they won't be able to sustain anything.
You know,
>> it's overcoming the excuses like
somebody could be like, oh, you know,
like I'm having a kid or, you know, I'm
in college or I'm young and I don't have
a lot of money. And they they just like
look at like what's everything wrong
with the situation instead of just
selling it first and figuring it out.
Mhm.
>> Like just go out there and capitalize on
the opportunity.
>> Yeah. And that's how I felt. I'm like,
I'm not going to wait for anybody to
give me an opportunity. I'm going to
take it. There was no one my age. And
every time I say this, people like
that's not true. Okay. I'm talking about
on the scale I was doing it at that time
in 2018. No one in college amongst my
peers were talking about feminine
hygiene because it was such a taboo. It
was very uncomfortable to talk about
odor and um issues with intimacy. No one
was talking about that because that's
something that you wanted to keep to
yourself, you know. So, I said, "I will
be the sacrificial lamb, you know, and I
will talk I will talk about it with no
shame." And it brought so many more
women closer to my brand because they
love the story.
>> You know what I love about this is I
feel like this podcast has been a
testament. Look, if I don't have a seat
at the table, I'm going to build the
damn table.
>> Yes. I'm going to build the table. And I
promise you, I'm going to go get the
materials to build it, too. It doesn't
even have to come with the legs. I'll
build a leg. Get me a find me a tree
somewhere.
>> I'm going to [laughter] cut it down and
chop some wood.
>> Okay. Let me chop some wood. And I'm and
I'm so serious about it. I am so
resourceful. I built this brand by
myself in the sense of I didn't have a
background in entrepreneurship. I didn't
have a background in soap making. I had
just the desire. I had a zeal for this.
I wanted to do it because I understood
how how much it impacted my life and I
wanted to share it with people. You know
what I mean?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Jalisa, what do you think keeps people
broke in today's world?
>> Looking at what other people are doing
and thinking that, oh well, they're
doing it. I can't do it either, girl. If
you don't get up and find I just I don't
like the fact that a lot of people
believe that these saturated markets
exist. It doesn't exist.
>> What you are going to do for you, that's
your own lane. No one can do it like
you. No one. The same way we're talking
now, we all have our own lives. We all
have our own perspectives. We all have
our own journeys. That's the same way it
is in business. As long as you know how
to handle business and how to handle
people, you can thrive. But when it
comes to, oh yeah, well, I'm just not
gonna do it because someone else is
doing it. You will stay broke for a long
time.
>> So many people, they just, they pay
attention to what other people are doing
instead of themselves. There's a reason
why
>> your plate gets cold. You're looking at
somebody else's plate. Oh my god, their
food is so good. By the time they eat
your food, your food is cold. You had a
you had a masterpiece in front of you.
You didn't You're not even looking at
it.
>> I I was going to use the example. So,
funny enough, like we mentioned Neo,
right? Like in when we interviewed him,
he talked about at the Kentucky Derby,
like horses, they have the blinders on,
so they can't see to the left or right
of them. how the horse is doing and they
can only think about their lane
>> uh in getting to the finish line. And so
I if so many more people just adopted
that in entrepreneurship or just to be
successful in life, they'd realize I'm
on my own timeline. I'm competing
against the person in the mirror at the
end of the day.
>> Time is relative. I was speaking to my
good friend about that. We talk about
that all the time. Like
>> time is what you make it. Honestly, you
can start at 50, 60, and still thrive.
You can start at 15 and still thrive.
Like I wouldn't let age be a barrier to
anything you're doing. Like you
mentioned you I started in college.
That's all I knew. I was going to start.
I didn't care how old I was. I didn't
think about that. I didn't think about,
dang, I'm a senior in college. I'm
broke, but I'm start trying to make a
start a business. I'm not considering
that. I'm thinking about I have an idea.
Let's act on it before God give it to
somebody else because he will.
>> He will. And some people think, oh well,
you know, um well, what's for me is for
me.
>> Yeah, you know, it has already been
written, but sometimes you can miss your
blessing.
>> Yeah. You became a millionaire at 25
years old. Is that correct?
>> Yes.
>> Were [snorts] you the first millionaire
in your family?
>> Yes,
>> you were. So, what happens all the time
we see is that people aren't used to
having money, right? If they've never
come from it, so they often times
squander it. When you first, you know,
became a millionaire, we're making a
substantial amount of money from what
you were ever used to or your family was
used to for that matter. How did you
spend money on your lifestyle? Did you
learn a lesson there about like like did
you waste money? Did you blow money at
all or or were you always good about
putting it back in the business?
>> Um, I think I've always been really good
with money. Um, when I first started, I
bought my mom like a car about 3 years
into my business, but it wasn't too bad.
Like I I could do it, but I've never
been a person to squander. I've all not
I haven't been frugal, but I have been
very aware of what's going on with my
finances because my grandma, she used to
call me the family bank. She would give
me $5 and I would see how long I could
make it last. Like I used to love saving
and love like seeing how my money could
stack up and I that's when I was a
child. So I just carried that with me.
That's why I was telling you I want them
to follow the fruit of how I am and how
I manage money because I think that
would save them more than yeah my mom
took me out of town and we balled out.
No, I want you to have longl lasting
impacts of what I did for them as a
child and how they see me maneuver in
life.
But you also like we were talking about
this earlier that you need to know the
difference between a business bank
account and and a lifestyle like like
the business bank account is not the
lifestyle account.
>> So that's a thing that I find to be like
a challenge with a lot of new
entrepreneurs. So let's just say you
make a million dollars, right? You
think, oh wow, I made a million dollars.
No, that is for your business. You have
to play I mean pay payroll taxes. That's
why the IRS comes for people because
you're not paying your taxes. You're not
paying your sales tax. You're spending
the money that your business is making
and you're spending on yourself. You're
using your business finances and paying
off your personal credit card bills with
your business. So, when things like that
happen and you get audited, you're like,
"Dang, what's happening?" And then you
wonder why your business your finances
are being strained because you don't
know how to manage. You don't know how
to differentiate what I'm supposed to
use for myself and my business. Now, me,
I I don't know what it is and I don't
have a finance background, but I just
have this feeling. You know how you can
have a gut feeling like how to move
correctly with with money? I just I
don't know. I just have it like I just I
don't I've never been person to just be
careless with money,
>> you know? It's what I think it is also
is like when you don't come from a lot
of money.
>> Yes.
>> It's like look, I got to make with what
I have. It may go a long way. And that's
where Exactly. It's like look, I got to
get real creative on how I'm going to
turn this $2 into $10. Right. And so one
of the things that I find also like just
so interesting about your story is you
had explosive growth.
>> Yeah. And there's a lot of blessings in
there, but there's also a lot of
challenges.
>> Was there ever a moment during that
growth, you're like, look, if I don't
figure this out, like I might lose the
company.
>> Oh, yeah. Um, I believe it was 2020. We
were shipping out orders out of my
garage at my house. I rented a house and
we were making soap out of the garage
and my family had came up because we had
about 20,000 orders to ship out and that
was a lot. I mean, I'm making the stuff
in my house, y'all. Like 20,000 orders.
It was insane. So, I had my family fly
up. I mean, not fly drive up from Miami
to Orlando. Um, because we didn't have I
didn't have I didn't have many
employees. You know, I was hiring people
from Facebook Market and hey, anybody
want to come and work for me for $10 an
hour? They're like, "Yeah, you know,
two or three people would come. I'll get
college students most times." But the
challenge in that was it was during a
hurricane season. We had shipped out
everything. I mean, it was incredible,
immaculate. Everything was done
perfectly. And as soon as the pickup
came for the orders, no one received
their order. We dropped off every single
package. I made every single soap. I
mean, it we worked tirelessly to get
this stuff done and to get it done in a
timely manner because at that time, Sod
XO was known for their long for our long
shipping times because I was making
everything one by one. And I felt so
glorious. I felt so victorious having
those orders done and completed for not
a single package to reach a customer.
And that nearly broke my business
because I realized not only you can't
rely on carriers, especially when you
you don't have insurance on the
products, you know, things like that.
But I realized if I didn't have a
reserve and I wasn't really careful with
the way I managed my business and my
finances, Sodexo wouldn't exist today if
that was the case because that took a
major hit financially. I had to remake
every single product. I had to rehip
every single product and I never
communicated with my customers and told
them what happened. I just redid it all.
Like I let them know, hey, there was a
slight delay, but I wasn't going to
issue a refund because I was building a
brand. I wanted to make a lasting
impact. I wanted people to trust me. So,
I just took from the reserves I had, the
last of it, and remade everything. And
God brought it back to me 10fold. I
promise you. Like, it was it was such a
hard time. Like, I thought I was going
to lose it all. And I just I gained it
right back like very very fast. So I was
really that moment for me it it taught
me so much about managing my money
properly, making sure that I don't use
the business funds for my own lifestyle
and making sure that I have a team in
place that will work hard tirelessly for
me and not give me an excuses because we
were all in it to win it.
>> Um
>> yeah,
>> Jalisa, what is the in regards to
entrepreneurship and business in
general? What is your most controversial
opinion? M
controversial opinion. See, I don't
know. I think because I'm so
what's the word for it? Like I I don't
know if you guys think about signs. Are
y'all Do y'all are like into that? Not
into it. Into it, but you're familiar
with how a person can be. Yeah. Yeah.
Cuz I'm I'm God's child first. Thank
you. All right.
>> But um so I'm like very
>> what's the word for it? I'm like very
stick to the rules kind of person. Like
I like to stick to the rules and stick
to how things should be. Um, so when I
when it comes to controversy, I would
say like your friends will define you
define you. But I don't think it's
controversial. I think that your friends
defining you is just like just truth.
Like when you're when you're around
people that are sucking the life out of
you, it will reflect on how you live
your life, how you navigate rooms. But
if you're around people that are
edifying you in any capacity, that's
what you need. Especially when you're
growing a business, a family, being in a
relationship, you need people around
you. Like we talked about your circle,
like making sure that your proximity to
people is a healthy one. And I love the
people that I'm around because they
constantly lift me up. They're
constantly pouring into me and giving me
ideas to be better. And there's no
competition.
>> If you if you look at your circle and
you don't get inspired, you're not in a
circle. You're in a cage.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Literally, you're in a cage.
So, I like to be inspired. I like to be
around people that are doing better than
me. Um because I'm like, it's possible.
If if it's in arms reach, it gives me
the encouragement to know like, hey,
this is so possible. I want to be around
like you say billionaires. You you
interview billionaires. It's like that
exists like that. I'm trying to reach
that point one day.
>> Yeah. Jisa, I want to ask you, are you
familiar with Joshua Crisp?
>> No, I'm not.
>> Joshua Crisp.
>> Okay. He he's like friends with like Neo
Deiso. He's an incredible internet
marketer and he actually preaches that
one of the most important aspects of
scaling any business is offers like like
coming up with great offers. And in
particular, I think that he says like
the most important thing that people
want when you're creating an offer isn't
necessarily like quantity, but it's
actually the variety of different like
products that they have to choose from.
So, when you had those million-dollar
launches where you did a million dollars
in 30 minutes and you know, even 7 to 8
months in, you had 18,000 visitors on
your Shopify store at one time, what is
your secret to creating an irresistible
offer for the customer when they're
shopping sod xo?
>> That's a good one. So, I I talk to their
pain points. So, I'll say,
"Hey, have you experienced odor lately?"
And it might be kind of like tongue and
cheek a little bit like, "Excuse me."
But my community, they love it. They
love when I talk to them very direct.
And when I'm talking to them like that
and I'm calling out an issue or I'm
calling out a concern that they might
have, I don't know what it is, but it
makes them feel so comfortable and at
ease when I call it out. It's kind of
like when you face someone and the only
person that you're comfortable with is
the one that's brutally honest with you.
Yeah,
>> that's how I am. I'm brutally honest
with my team, with my uh customers, but
I'm also very nurturing and comforting
at the same time so they know that it's
not something to put them down, but it's
like, let's call it out and let's find
something to give you a solution for it.
>> But you don't play the middle line.
You're bold, which is important.
>> I'm very bold. I'm very bold.
[clears throat]
I say what it is. I'm
like, we call ourselves the clean
coochie club. People will be like,
"What?" Yes, girl. and and own it and be
proud to be clean and want to take care
of yourself and and clean isn't all
about like topically, but it's just like
taking care of yourself. The way you
position yourself in the world, being a
woman, being feminine, I I love it. I
don't mind saying the things that people
are afraid to say. And I think that's
what has separated me because I've
always been a I've always been a person
that will be bold in how I speak and be
bold in the way I represent my brand.
>> You're also incredibly bold in your
faith as well. Your dad was a pastor.
Yes.
>> Can you explain how important your
relationship with God has been for you
and ultimately like just the need for
that to be successful in business?
>> Oh man. Okay. So, um growing up in
church sometimes you you're just used to
it, right? And you don't really build
that relationship. I've seen that so
many times with uh preacher kids and
they grow up and they just go haywire,
right? But the thing with me, I
developed a relationship with God in
college, like a personal relationship.
And I realized I didn't want to do
anything without God involved in it.
Even if he had to sit me down, even if
he had to chastise me, I've always been
grateful for him uh the chastisement.
And when God has God ever sat y'all down
before and like made you guys realize,
hey, I need to get my life together.
Yeah, I've had those moments. And I
think when God does it and it's not like
something that someone does in the
physical realm, I'm like, all right,
God, thank you so much. because I have
been able to do what I've done at this
scale because God has given me so much
grace, so merciful. My team always says,
"God is so good with us." Because
there's so many things I didn't know
that God protected me and shielded me
from. Whether it was people, whether it
was sharks coming into my business,
wanting to take over, wanting to
implement things that didn't resonate
with my morals. And I've always been a
person to pray about it first and then
move. I don't do anything unless I go to
him. Yeah, that is my compass.
>> I love that. Jalisa, we like to end
these podcasts off with two questions
for our guests. I'll start and Jack will
end it. Jalisa, 31 years old today.
>> Yes.
>> If all four of us sitting here died
tomorrow and you could leave one last
message with the younger generation,
what would that be?
>> Learn the hard lessons fast and don't
have to don't have don't have don't
relearn the same lesson twice. I actually
had to relearn a very hard lesson. And
that's why I'm able to talk about it so
confidently now because there will never
be a time where I will learn a hard
lesson twice because I think you'll get
the wisdom. Like God will keep teaching
you. If you don't learn, he'll keep
popping you on your hand. All right,
cool. Cool. And I've realized the moment
I decided to learn and not go back to
the same ways and the same practices, my
grace has been abundant. But you had one
year in particular where you were
dealing with postpartum. You had the
loss of a close family member and I
believe there were some other things
that may have been going on,
>> but yet you still came out on top,
right? And that was a very low point. I
want to talk directly to somebody that's
at rock bottom. They may feel like,
>> you know, this is it for me, like I
don't really have much left in me. If
you were talking to Jalisa at that point
in time right now, similar to you're
having a conversation with that person,
what what would you tell that person?
Um, what I would tell myself, I remember
me being in my closet just crying and
not having not seeing a way out of it. I
would be like, "Get up, sis. Like, you
got it. It doesn't look like it now. It
may look very foggy, like you can't see
anything, but I promise you, you're
going to come out. You're going to be
glorious. You're going to be victorious.
Like, you have abundance written all
over your name. You have so much looking
forward to embracing you and loving on
you very, very soon." And I think
sometimes when we don't realize that
there's so much to look forward to and
you're just looking at the present, it
can limit your view. Of course, it's
like it's like looking at a lens that
can only see from here to the camera,
you know? Like I want to be able to see
far out. And as soon as I was able to
see that what was in front of me was not
all that there was for me, my life
changed.
>> But I'm sure you also realized that if
you didn't do it for yourself, no one
else was coming to do it for you.
>> Yeah. And I had to pull myself out of
that dark place. I had to. And yes, I
had a beautiful family around me, but I
don't believe that anyone can pull you
out of depression and sadness. You have
to do it. You have to have that
wherewithal, that that passion, that
determination, like I'm not going to let
this take over my body, my mind. I'm
going to fight through. It's just like
with people who have cancer, you will
you can die sooner based on your your
mentality, based on the way you think.
But the moment you start believing, I
will survive this. I will champion this.
I will defeat cancer. Cancer does not
define me. You you can see the changes
in someone's body and the way that they
feel, the way they walk, you know, and
you can see the healing progressing. So,
I'm really big on I speak life into
myself. I pour into myself and I try to
do that for every person that encounters
me who might be having a hard time.
>> Definitely. And Jalisa, when it's all
said and done, how do you want to be
remembered? I want to be remembered as
having the most incredible feminine
hygiene brand ever to exist in the world
because I thought that I was just making
soap. Silly me. It was so much bigger
than soap. I have transformed the lives
of women in terms of their confidence,
the way that they feel about intimacy,
their relationship to um intimate
language. And I feel that I have made a
huge impact in the way that women feel
like they want to carry themselves,
especially in rooms now talking about
feminine hygiene so openly. And I want
people to remember that I I did it first
in a sense of I was able to put my
business on the front street so that we
can all talk about it openly. And um I
think that is a wonderful wonderful um
gift that God gave me. But I really do
think that we can unpack one more
extremely powerful lesson right here,
which is that like you said, you thought
you were just selling soap, but it's a
necessity. Everybody's going to continue
to buy it. They don't have to go out
there and build the next big tech giant
or you know, you don't have to get rich
selling courses. Like you can actually
get rich.
>> You can actually and you can sell a
tangible product and it can be something
that might be boring.
>> Soap is cons considered boring. Like,
oh, you're about to make soap. But I
loved it. I love what it did for women.
I love what it did for me. I loved how
it changed my life and how it changed
the way that my my mother and my
grandmother, we all use it. So, doesn't
matter if it's boring, go for it. Boring
stuff makes the most money.
>> Where is Jalisa Seymour in the next 5 to
10 years?
>> Oh, we're global. I am global. You're
going to be seeing me everywhere. Egypt,
Dubai, Ghana, I mean everywhere. I mean,
China, I mean, we're going to be
everywhere. So, that is my goal. um to
build a strong foundation, a strong
brand that
>> the way that you would think about
feminine hygiene, your first thought
will always be Salt XL.
>> Love that. Yeah.
>> Well, this was an incredible
conversation. We appreciate you finding
being here with us in Miami today. My
pleasure. My pleasure.
>> For everybody that's tuned in right now,
be sure to like and subscribe for
amazing content coming every week to the
Hardnox podcast. We're bringing 8 n 10
11 figureure entrepreneurs to this
podcast every single week. We're going
to put the links down in the description
for you guys to get access to get
yourself some Saw XO to follow along
with Jalisa and her journey as she
continues to build this into a billion
dollar company. It's going to be a
billion dollar company.
>> Absolutely. We're claiming it right now.
>> Come on. We're claiming it. It's on the
way.
>> It's on the way.
>> It's coming 100%. We're going to put the
links down in the description for you
guys to get access to check out Salt XO.
Follow along with her. And we're also
going to put a link down in the
description to join the number one
entrepreneur community in the entire
world, the School of Mentors, where
every single week we host live calls
with 8, 9, 10, and 11 figure
entrepreneurs where you can join and ask
your specific questions directly to them
every single week and get the blueprints
on how to build million-dollar and
billion-dollar companies in today's
world. So, we can't wait to see you on
the inside. The link's down in the
description. With
that being said, we'll see you in the
next