Every day we step into the arena. We sit
down at our desk, we turn on ourdesktops, and we're hit with a wall of
information. We are processing a ton allat once all day. We're doing mental math
on the fly, calculating expected valueas it constantly changes, grading
opportunities in seconds. We're on callstalking about trade setting up. We're
zoning into reading the tape to watch anoffer lift. We're calling out another
watch list name breaking out. It'schaotic, it's fast, and it's [music]
noisy. In the midst all that noise, weneed to have anchors.
Having checks in favor for our setupsare our anchors.
To everyone else, they're just criteriato enter a trade. To us, these are our
mantras.Checks in favor are what we need to see
in a trade to be able to quiet thenoise, put our shoulders back, and put
on risk [music] with conviction. Thereis something so incredibly powerful
about the moment you know your checks infavor like the back of your hand. Then
you're seeing your checks in favor inreal time, and it's not a setup anymore.
It's conviction slapping you in theface. Today, we are pulling back the
curtain on our seven most powerfulchecks in favor for breakouts. These
aren't your classic entry rules you canfind in any trading textbook. This is
the DNA of how Garret and I actuallymake money.
These seven factors are our lifeblood.There isn't a day that goes by that we
aren't obsessed with these, gradingthem, debating them, and hunting for
them. This is how we see the world ofbreakouts. Welcome back to the Trading
Floor Podcast, episode 13 here. I'm Tim,and here with Garret and Kurt. How's it
going, Garret?>> What's up, Tim?
So, I got a list for you, man. I got Igot more than five. Like I know I know
we've we've got our playbooks. We kindof know we kind of know what we're doing
with our playbooks, butI went ahead and grabbed
15 checks in favor that I thinkwe pay attention to when we're trading
breakouts.And
I split them up into three categories.Okay, so
we've gotsome
that pertain to the setup. So, what do Iwhat do I mean?
We're trying to answer the questionlike, does this deserve to be on my
watch list, right? I got them all righthere by the
>> I love it.>> The context, right? That's another big
thing, another big category, right? Andwe have checks in favor within this and
we're trying to answer the questionlike, does this have a reason to go?
Right?Timing is the third category that these
checks in favorfall under and
this would be trying to answer thequestion, is this happening now?
Right? Cuz there's a difference betweenhaving a great idea,
seeing something that's set up,having the context where this is
actually something that could really goin a big way, and then
you don't have the timing right, right?So, there's also checks in the favor
that have to do with the timing. So,I really enjoyed splitting these up into
these different categories because itorganizes them in in a way where you're
kind of thinking about certain onestogether at certain moments. And then
other ones like as the timing starts tocome together, you might actually be
starting to think about those timingones
more. So, I thought we could go What Iwant to do is I want to rip through
all of these checks in favor and I wantto get your opinion. We can debate it,
but I want to get your opinion onwhether these are like a must-have
check in favoror just one that adds conviction, right?
That would be like the middle ground,like totally solid, but maybe not like a
non-negotiable. And then like an extraWe call it extra credit, right? Meaning
likewe don't need this, but it's certainly a
bonus in lot of situations. So, if wecan do a good job of categorizing these,
I think that we'll in the end, we'regoing to have some that will fall under
that category of must have.And that's going to be That's going to
be our most powerfulchecks in favor for breakout trades.
>> Would you like to gain the biggest edgea retail trader can get?
All of our daily and weekly in-housetrader meetings are now available to
you. Just head over to SMB TradingFloor.com to find out more.
>> So, let me make sure I have you right.So, we have setting, context, timing as
the three categories, 15 checks infavor.
Do we know does it matter how many arein each of those that you picked? It's
not an equal amount, is it?>> It's almost an equal amount. There are
about five. Like, there's one that hassix and one that has four and one that
has five. So, it's aboutIt's about five each. And, you know,
just just to put this into perspectivebefore we start ripping into this. Like,
check in favor is something like whenyou're making a trade, right? It's like,
is the tape confirming, right? Is thereLike, maybe it's a type of trade where
you you want to see something on thetape and that becomes a check in favor
for your trade. So, we're going to talkabout what does this mean for us when
we're trading breakouts?Right? And I I actually opened up our
team breakout playbook toto kind of make sure I didn't miss
anything.Um and I I did a little little quick
review.>> All right, so let's Let's
>> Yeah, let's get into it. So, then we'reputting them in the three buckets, must
haves, adds conviction, extra credit.All right, ready to roll.
>> Exactly. Must haves are very special, sowe want to
we want to reserve those. So, let'slet's start with the setup.
All right. We'll we'll do thesecategories like one by one.
All right, so number one, the pink line.Right? You know what I mean by that.
>> Oh, yeah.>> And those who watched our episode on the
pink line know what we mean by that. Butwhat we mean by that is a really
significant price level.And how would you define that? Right?
Because you we can we can actually gradethe pink line. Like that becomes its own
thing. Like we can grade the setup, butwe're often grading like how good is
this price level? What goes into thatfor you?
>> As we went over in the podcast episode awhile back, a pink line doesn't
necessarily have to be this higher timeframe level. It doesn't have to be a
daily or weekly level, and it couldhappen intraday.
But the big thing is it's a significantbreakout level where there should be a
change in character of the tape once astock gets above this level. You should
get new buyers stepping in once pricelifts above this level. You should get
volume coming in when we get above thislevel.
Uhand the bigger thing with the pink line,
and I'm already going to put it as amust-have for me
when we're doing our categories, is itallows you to avoid the mid-range
trading, the trading in no-man's land,and it allows you to take breakouts when
they're actually breaking out of ranges.>> Yeah.
Okay, so>> And so a pink line could be a level
that's tested multiple times and failed.Uh often like you're going to see failed
breakouts at this pink line whichstrengthens it and strengthens it. You
might see a lot of volume at this level.Like every time we come up there, like
if you go back and look at that likeNvidia 500 breakout from like a few
years ago that we always talk about.Every time on the daily chart it came up
to that 500 level, it was a huge volumeday.
And failed, right? Which juststrengthens that level and then it
tightens up against it which willwe'll talk about that, too.
Umbut the pink line being a high-quality
pink line and then the entiremethodology around how we trade around
thatpink line is kind of everything to these
breakouts. So, I agree with you. This isa must-have.
>> It's how you visually see the breakout.Where, like you said, you know, they're
they're testing the level so many timesand that's when you start putting the
pink line there. Like, you can arguethat you can't even have a pink line
without any previous failures at thelevel because then you don't know it's
significant.>> Right. You And you could argue that you
can't have a breakout without a pinkline. So, all right. This is a
must-have.>> Ea- That was easy.
>> That was easy. Okay. Number two,30-minute squeeze.
>> This is an interesting one.I think I'm going to deliberate. Right
now, my head's going to add'sconviction.
Um becausethe 30-minute squeeze, what we've found,
um and we're talking about thevolatility cycles.
>> Or other- otherwise known as like theBollinger Band Squeeze or on most
platforms like a TTS Squeeze umindicator is going to do the same thing,
but it's it's measuring the volatilityand the compression of the stock. So,
when it when the stock on that timeframe gets really compressed, it gets
into what what you call a a squeeze onthat time frame. Sorry to interrupt, but
that's>> No, yeah, exactly. Yeah. And you
explained it even better than me. But,for me, it usually what we use the
30-minute squeeze as a way of sayingthis has enough energy to make a trend
day today. A stock could have a trendingday. It's built up a ton of energy on
the 30-minute chart. And usually that,you know, could kind of um echo out to
like eight bars of continuation, whichwould be, you know, 30-minute eight
bars. But, the reason I'm thinking themiddle category
in the middle bucket for 30-minutesqueeze is it always will add conviction
in a trade, but there will be somebreakout trend trades that we're trading
on a higher time frame, and they won'thave a 30-minute squeeze. Like if we're
trading a weekly breakout, and I'm goingto be perfectly fine taking them.
>> Do you want to sit in on all of ourdaily and weekly in-house trader
meetings? There's no bigger edge retailtraders can get. Visit
smbtradingfloor.comto learn more.
>> A 30 minutes because it's on the30-minute chart, we're basically talking
about a nice compression pattern,sideways
consolidationthat lasts for like a day and a half or
or or maybe a couple days.So, it's a it's on a lower time frame.
If we're talking about a giant dailychart breakout,
we might be just looking at this nicerange that it could also break out from
over the last few days, which means ithas the energy to make an opening drive.
It's like a compression within acompression. We're getting that
short-termenergy build-up
to blast through the openand rip in the morning, right? And we
Those are the best kind of breakouts.So, I would agree with you that like not
all breakouts need this, but itcertainly helps set it up for a powerful
opening drive. So, adds conviction, 100%agree.
>> So, that's a good point.A lot of opening drives, like we've seen
it a ton,they get bought from a 30-minute
squeeze. And sometimes, which maybe thisis one of the ones later, but they get
bought usually from the 10 and 20 movingaverage we've been seeing a bunch.
>> Yeah.>> Would you take a breakout trade
and you enter like the way you'reexecuting in the first 30 minutes if it
wasn't in a 30-minute squeeze? Like whatwould that be?
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, sometimes ifyou just have a really big daily level,
like a really great pink line,like you're just going to take it when
it gets above, right? Like you're not itdoesn't have to be in a 30-minute
squeeze. It's justthat 30-minute chart is actually quite
extended. Like let's talk about theopposite scenario where the stock runs
into the level.All right, and on a 30-minute chart that
might meanyou know, it's spent like a couple days
like running into the level and then itwhen it just prints above are you going
to buy it? Well, that's probably not ashigh probability trade as something that
gets up there and then starts tocompress and go sideways for like a
couple days, develops a range, and thenbreaks out with all kinds of energy to
like make that that next leg. So it likeresets on that 30-minute chart. So I
think it makes the trade better. I thinkit makes it more clear. I think it makes
that timing easier. It's just like a lotmore confident buying through
like a consolidation break. Um whenwe're talking about like a bigger daily
or like weekly level than something thatjust sort of like gets up there and like
trades above the level. But if thelevel's big enough,
it starts holding, you know, still goingto buy it. So I can't say it's a must
have. Can't>> Yeah, I fully agree. And I like how you
put it, too. So many times when it isextended on the 30, we'll just wait for
it to actually hold above. Like ifyou're just taking that first offer
lifting, like so many times they failright on you.
>> Yeah, 100%. Um so number three is highertime frame squeeze. So this is the same
exact concept, but like let's just say adaily or weekly time frame squeeze
signal. Meaning we've got a nicecompression pattern on the daily or
weekly, which you know, that would takeum gosh, like a couple months to, you
know, a couple a couple weeks to acouple months to kind of set up and get
tight, right? Depending on whether it'sthe daily or the weekly. So, these are
our big higher time frame setups.>> And now bringing it away from the
opening drives to our like bread andbutter juicy breakout trend trades. Like
I would say that's a must-have.>> It's going to be somewhere. It's going
to be on the hourly or the daily or theweekly if it's a really good tight
consolidation. To be A+>> Yeah.
>> To be A+, I would say you got to have iton one of the one of the higher time
frames.Um 100%.
>> Cuz there is some like breakout tradingwhere you're kind of more like trying to
play pullbacks and you're riding anuptrend in a leading stock. And like I
know I've like taken advantage of likecertain setups like the wick play and
they're like mid-range, but those aren'tthe breakouts we're talking about here.
And like if we're having like you saidan A+ breakout, like it has to have a
squeeze on some time frame. And you'relooking at that squeeze to then be like,
all right, this breakout's happening onthis time frame.
>> Yeah.>> And if you have the weekly, daily, and
hourly, even better across all of them.>> Yeah, absolutely. All right, so
number fouruptrend.
>> What do you mean?>> Does the stock need to be in an uptrend?
>> No, I would say, all right, interesting.>> I'm glad you said that.
>> Yeah. I mean, cuz we're looking notalways like you get an SNDK like and
we're looking at this trade and likeit's already made its move and this is
likea more of a trend continuation. But some
of the best breakouts are your basebreakouts.
>> Right. Like that initial like stage oneinto like stage two uptrend base
breakout, like a fresh>> Like we're going to beat it like a dead
horse, but Fastly.>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, exactly. Okay, Fastly,um which was an earnings play that we
took that was a basically a breakout,more a little bit more of a catalyst
play.You know, I'm not sure it had a daily
squeeze or anything like that, but itcertainly had a base.
And you know, if we look at umyou know, stuff like remember like that
Twilio like a few years ago on earningsthat broke out of that massive base.
>> Oh, yeah.>> Some of these IPO base breakouts that
that go sideways since the IPO and thenand then break.
Um great trades, but they're notnecessarily in uptrends. They're just in
big big boxes, right?>> Even the initial SNDK IPO base breakout
too, it did nothing.Get spun off and then
like that was just a great base, but ifyou were looking for an uptrend
>> That's true.>> Yeah.
>> All right, so I would I'd say extracredit because you it's kind of it
doesn't reallyyou don't really need it.
Like it's great. I mean, I think thetrend continuation ones are probably the
most common.All right, number five, blue sky.
And this doesn't meanall-time highs, it just means
is there airup there? Meaning like, you know, no
resistance.You can get tar- you can get pretty good
targets without without running intoresistance.
>> I would say a must-have for me on thatone. Because if you're taking a breakout
trade that has a ton of overheadresistance like very close to your
breakout level.>> Yeah.
>> One, it sounds like it's probably in themiddle of a range and it's not really a
breakout. And then two, it's just veryhard to expect clean momentum. And like
the idea with these breakout trendtrades is like we want it to move away
from price quick, you know?>> Yeah, yeah.
>> So if it's going to run like a half ATRand it's going to then like go into an
area that it's failed a ton. Like itcould be different this time, but like
it's a little harder. Yeah.>> And you you don't you also don't want to
be forced into just taking some, youknow, profit target that's not giving
you any risk reward just cuz there'slike a resistance level there. That's
not really abreakout. Right?
>> a good point.>> Um so, okay. So, blue sky, I mean
we so, you're saying must have>> Yeah.
>> I agree I agree with you. I'm justsaying that we have
we've done five of these and three ofthem have been must haves already.
>> Maybe we're going to have more than five>> maybe maybe maybe maybe maybe I made a
really good list here. Probably becauseI looked at our playbook, but um
All right. So, the last one for thesetup. And do you see what I'm doing
here? Like these are all things thatare kind of answering the question like
when we're screening like for potentialbreakouts and we're trying to say like
does this deserve to be on my watchlist? We're thinking like, okay, is
there a really clear breakout level, thepink line, right? Is it in a 30-minute
squeeze, okay? Is it in a higher timeframe squeeze? Is it in an uptrend? Is
there no resistance? Right? So, the thesixth one is
is it a momentum name?>> Ooh.
And I just definitely see what you'redoing because these are all things we
could do before the market opens, whichis great cuz they go into grading the
potential of the trade and then you seeit real time.
>> Yeah.>> All right. So, is it a momentum name?
If you asked me this like 2 years ago,I would have thought this didn't matter
as much as it does and rep after rep,like trade after trade, it matters a
lot.So, I'm thinking in the middle at
conviction because there are certainscenarios where a name that you might
not be familiar with or like it's notnecessarily a momentum name has a
catalyst and it has an insane amount ofvolume and it can trade like a stock in
play.But what I've noticed like really in the
last like 2 years is like the shittynames, like if they usually trade
shitty, they continue to do that. Andlike the names that usually trade very
choppy,you expect to have them trade
differently. But, there are certainnames that just behave in a particular
way on breakouts.And behave in a way that momentum names
don't. And like, for the most part,I'm not as excited about those.
>> Yeah, and and it's almost like to findmomentum name because that that can
change.>> like you're I I totally agree with you,
but what's so funny about it is like,>> you know, a couple of years ago, we
might be saying,you know, X, Y, and Z are momentum
names. And then now,you know, we're talking about um
you know, we're talking about likenatural gas names.
>> Like yesterday.>> Right?
>> So, you know, that that can>> LNG, yeah.
>> LNG, like that's that can change basedon the themes in the market environment
and and new stocks pop up, so it's goodto be flexible with what your definition
of a momentum name is, but>> And quantify it like we do with the
volatility volume index, which maybe atsome point we'll talk about, but
>> Oh, good good call. Yeah, we could dothat. Um
Exactly. So, all right, so you're sayingadds conviction.
>> Yeah.>> So, you're saying it's like important,
it's not a necessarily a must-havebecause
>> And more just cuz the caveat withcatalyst. But, like
if I look at it,almost
majority of my tradingbreakout trading is in momentum names.
>> Yeah, I agree. I agree it would it wouldhave to be it would take like a really,
really specialum catalyst for me to play like a
breakout and like like a technicalbreakout and like target
or something like that, right? Like, Imean, maybe retail names are going nuts
and that's a whole theme, but umcuz the funny thing is like, when I
startedtrading and looking at this stuff, like
I would find a great breakout leveland squeezes and uptrends and and blue
sky and you know, tightness, right?Which is the squeezes in like random
names and I would be thinking like, ohman, when this gets above this level,
this is going to go nuts cuz it looksthe same
as like a great breakout and they justwouldn't. But then like Tesla would and
then after a while you realize, oh okay,yeah, that's it's just cuz certain names
have different characters.>> And bringing it all together, too, cuz
Tesla's like the best example. Maybe itmoves this year, but like in the past
it's just the best momentum stock of alltime. Uh
going to the pink line when I was sayinglike, you want to see a change in
character, what you really want to seein a good pink line in a good breakout
level is that IV can expand above thatbreakout level, which then hints at
momentum names are where IV expands.>> Right. Yeah, with the
>> Not non-momentum names cuz they have theoptions change like activity.
>> And you get the gamma squeeze.Activity and stuff like that,
absolutely.>> Here's a mind-bending stat for you. SMB
traders have 20x to 40x higher odds ofsuccess than independent traders.
Find out why and how to greatly increaseyour odds by visiting
smbtradingfloor.com.>> Next category. So, that was set up.
Now, the next category is context andthen we'll get to timing, which is
actually my favorite one.>> So, what do we got for in must-haves to
What is it? Real quick.>> I'm kind of want to
>> got we've got pink line, right? Which isthe breakout level,
quality of the breakout level. We've gothigher time frame squeeze, so we want to
see a really nice compressionon the higher time frame. So, a daily,
an hourly, a weekly chart, right? That'sthat's what's defining the the breakout
range and that compression that it'sbreaking out of. And then we've got
blue sky.>> Yep. No resistance.
Okay.Great. That's a That's a nice technical
setup. Those are all technicals, right?So, that's a good way to define a solid
technical setup. All right. So, now wehave context. So, this is trying to
answerlike now does this have a reason to go?
Right? So, like not only is thetechnical setup great, right? We've got
our compression. We've got ourlevel that's been tested many times, and
we've got blue sky>> ahead.
>> above.Right? But,
why? Like why should thismake a huge move, right? So, these are
the things thatthat can really create a tailwind,
in my opinion. All right. Number seven.Overall, cuz we've got 15 of these.
Whole sector going.>> Ooh. Yeah.
So, this one is going to be rarerthan any of the checks in favor we've
said before.>> Yeah.
>> You see it a lot with theme trading. Andwhen you get it like that could be
really powerful.>> Yeah.
>> Like really powerful. I'm kind of likeon the fence right now of like I'm
actually not on the fence cuz itwouldn't be a must have cuz like I said
it can be rare, but when you spot itit's like oh all of the drones are
going. Like yesterday all of the naturalgas were going. And then you have some
leading and then you find LNG.So, yeah. I would say adds conviction,
but that's a that's a good interestingone.
>> It might be like the the king of addsconviction.
>> Yes. Yeah. Like star it.>> If we had like a adds mega conviction
category, it would probably make that.Right?
>> Oh, yeah. Like 100%.>> would be
this adds a lot of conviction.Um I agree. And it's you You really put
it as a must have because sometimesyou've got stocks that are going off of
their ownaccord, and it really doesn't it's
really not associated with a group or atheme, and
like it doesn't mean like don't tradeit. So, you can't really say must have,
butwhen we get something like that, I mean
even the other day like all the memorynames were going. Like all all at once,
and it was just really easy to tradeSNDK to the long side.
>> Are you talking about before MUearnings?
>> Yeah.>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, that day.
>> I mean they they all did like off theopen today, but I was I was really
talking about like the day that they allstarted to break to new highs. Like they
all did it together. So, it was like itwas a lot easier to see it and just
trust it, because the they they're allkind of helping each other. All right,
so adds conviction.That makes sense. All right.
Market Tailwind.>> Okay, yeah.
Market Tailwind, interesting. So,right now we've had a market that's been
in range the entire year.And
tailwind, if you're referring to likethe market's in an uptrend above the
moving averages, and you need that forstocks to break out, I would say no,
because likeeven this year we've seen leading stocks
break out and make some really goodmoves while the market's stuck in a
range.But at the same point, this has not been
a very favorable swing long environment.Uh you can go off a ton of metrics, but
yeah, what do you think?>> What what did Cramer say? Like there's a
bull marketsomewhere, always.
>> Yeah, and then he hits his littlesoundboard.
>> Yeah, soNo, I agree. And this could also be like
the market is trending higher today, andour breakouts happening today. Like just
that need to happen.>> Okay, yeah.
>> I I I I It it didn't specify time frame,so it could be either, but I think both
have the same answer, which is likethere's a there are a lot of caveats to
this answer because it depends like on asliding scale like how much your stock
is a market stock versus its own likeidiosyncratic thing, right? So, if we're
trading a breakout in some low floatnatural gas name,
like does the market need to belike does spy need to be like in an
uptrend? Well, maybe absolutely not.Maybe it had like are we trading a are
we are we trading a gold miner?Like might not have anything to do with
the market. Are we tradingApple or meta? Like
maybe, right? Like that's that thatmight be a lot more tied
to the market. So, I I think that thattotally depends what we're trading
because you're right, like especially ina year like this year where we've seen
moredispersion as everyone likes to to say
these daysum and sector rotation and just like
unbelievable strength inin some names and in sectors and themes
and unbelievable weakness in others,right? Like software's going one way,
like oil's going another.Um
we're seeing everything's kind of in aworld of its own. And we've we've seen
markets where everything's kind oftrading together, so
this is one of the more likeaggressively rotational markets that
that I've ever seen in my entire life.So, especially in a market like this, I
think that that you can kind of throwthat rule out the window as long as you
know what you're trading, as long as youunderstand that like this is the theme
that is happening now and that is in anuptrend
um versus the theme that's out of favoror even worse maybe like a theme that's
not even in play that's irrelevant. Youyou might not get much legs in this kind
of market because, you know, the theindices have been stuck in this like
really narrow range. So, the stuff thathappen has not been in play has been
kind of a nightmare. Like trading Tesla.>> Oh, yeah.
>> Like what do you likeI can't imagine doing that right now.
It's going to be great>> Honestly.
>> at some point.>> It's going to be great at some point.
>> To put it in into perspective, too.Like on an intraday basis having the
market tailwindlike if you had a leading stock
breaking out. Like I'm you can think ofany of like the fiber optics or our
Fastly and the market was red or evenlike just flat not like strong intraday,
would that hold you back from taking thebreakout that you've been stalking?
>> No, and especially with and youmentioned Fastly and you know, another
one of these umchecks in favor that we're going to
cover was so strong in that trade thatit then just completely trumps like
worrying about what the market's doing.Right. So, there's certain things
>> a bunch, yeah.>> Yeah, there's certain things that make
it and I think the thing that like beasking and answering for yourself or at
least what I like to do is just like asklike how much of what I'm doing is a
market play.Like what's the percent? Is this a 80%
market play or like 2% market play? Bigdifference, right? And so
different factors like if it's somerandom low float gold miner, like
probably not as much of a market play.Um
if it has a unbelievable catalyst, maybeit's not as much of a market play. So,
all right. What are we going to callthis? Market tailwind, is that what is
that? Extra credit or or throw it out?>> put Should we put it in the trash?
>> Okay.>> Yeah.
>> For the extra credit.Yeah, cuz it it's not going to hurt.
Yeah.>> going to hurt. It's good, um but it also
and it would there's a little like inbetween between add conviction cuz it
definitely sometimes adds conviction butlike for the most part I would put it on
that third bucket.>> if it's a higher rating market play then
it's then it almost almost becomesnecessary. So
um all right. Number nine, offsidespositioning.
So this could be like high shortinterest. That's like the obvious one
but it could also just be like someprice action that sometimes you just
recognize as trapping the other side ofthe trade, right? So in this case it
would bemaybe the maybe the sentiment
on the street is negative on the stock.Maybe that someone came out with a short
report on it but it like didn't go downor there was an offering and it didn't
go down and maybe it took out supportand then held and then ripped higher,
right? And then or maybe it has highshort interest. Like that kind of
vibe. Um offsides positioning, what doyou think of that?
>> Yeah, this is so fun cuz as you're goingI'm just thinking of a different trades
from the past that fall into each ofthose
>> Yeah.>> phrases but uh I would say add is adds
conviction. I would put it in the middlebucket.
Um right off the bat like it could besuper powerful in certain trades where
like I'm thinking back to Ethereum lastyear
um on that trend continuation thatbreakout uh that we took in August and
like there was just a lot of people umoffsides on that parish trade.
>> Yeah.>> And I'm thinking of like Tesla
um which now probably was like two yearsago where it has like a failed
breakdown.Everyone's like Tesla looks terrible and
it can't go lower.>> Yeah.
>> I'm thinking maybe today again as themarket holds up and doesn't break down
where it's like another time themarket's looking terrible. This time it
tests bottom end of the range. It'sholding by the two 200 day. It has to
break down and it doesn't and that couldmaybe be some people offsides.
Umit's not fully necessary as a must-have
>> Right.>> um because you'll get breakouts in the
strongest stuff that don't have failedbreakdowns, and maybe there isn't a
short. Also Quantum last year, like talkabout just
>> Yeah. That's one of the ones that when Iwas writing this down, I was like really
thinking about that, too. Like so manypeople like doubting the fundamentals
for good reason.But what So, this is where you start to
combine these things? Like>> Yeah.
>> Sounbelievable um bear sentiment on the
Quantums based on their earnings and orlack thereof and how far they'd run
and how far out in time that technologysupposedly was and and you could go on
and on about the fundamentals and they'drun and but what did they do? They
consolidatedsideways through time and developed
an A+ pink linea daily or monthly
higher time frame squeezeand they had clear blue sky above. So,
all three must-haves under the setupcategory
they had.And those are the only must-haves we've
marked so far.And then you've got that combined with
this like offsides positioning, whichcan create like such an explosive
trade. So,I originally, when I was putting this
down, thought it was going to be extracredit.
But I think you're right. I think itit's it's like the ultimate like
conviction adder on on some of thesetrades where, you know,
you're trading likelike an Nvidia that's like a new AI
leader back in2024
umbig time theme, like no one's
questioning that. Like they're blowingout earnings like left and right, and
it's like you it can't be a must-havebecause that didn't that didn't really
have it.You know, like things like that don't
have it to your point. Okay.>> And it almost like it could add
convictionin the lens of holding, too. In the
imagination you can have with likebreakouts and where they could
potentially go. Or if you do get thatlike crazy offsides positioning,
it could add conviction to really hold.>> Yeah.
>> And it's not like one to take off dayone. It's like, I mean, what if these
shorts just get squeezed in a big way?And then you get the quantum 1,000%
moves.>> Totally.
Totally. Especially if you get thatvolume coming in.
Which we'll talk about. All right.>> What do we got?
>> All right. So, number 10.Catalyst.
>> Ooh. Love catalyst.As much as it hurts me, though, I I
can't put it as a must-have.>> Can't.
You really can't.>> So, that's adds conviction.
Umand
a lot of big moves and a lot ofbreakouts do tend to come from catalyst.
Um but it's not every time. And you canhave an A+ technical
breakout trade and like squeezes onevery timeframe, and we're hitting that
with conviction without a catalyst.>> Yeah. And and let's be clear here. Like
we're talking fundamental catalyst, andI probably should have
wrote wrote that as such. Um because youcould say that like
a technical breakout like is a catalyst.>> Yeah, like a high-graded big line.
>> like semantics here. But we're we'retalking about like a fundamental
catalyst. And we're also talking abouta catalyst that breaks it out
on that day. Likethere are names that had a catalyst
a month ago, and they're still kind oftrading they're still in favor from that
catalyst, and maybe thematicallytrading in that way because of this
growingnarrative. But that's not what we're
talking about. We're talking about acatalyst on day one breakout. Does it
need a catalyst to push it through thepink line?>> Answer is no, sadly.
>> I mean [laughter] it does not. And andthis is an interesting one and I would
encourage everyone andto go like
look back at all the best breakouts andlike try to find like news on that day
because like we've done this andoften there is
but again, it's like this sliding scale,right? So like if something has an
unbelievable catalyst, like a completeinflection in how the market is
perceiving the stock on the street.It doesn't really need like sometimes it
just doesn't needlike a tight consolidation or some
perfect like pink line. It just gaps up,trades tons of volume and then trends
for the nextfour weeks.
Right?>> And this is one where in the adds
conviction category in that bucket likestar this one too cuz this could like
you're saying add a ton of conviction.>> Yeah. But like that would be like an A++
catalyst or an A+ catalyst that canreally just
make the thing go on its own right.But what if you've got
an A+ pink line, great higher time framecompression.
Um you've got like a 30-minute squeeze,it's pressing up against that like on a
lower time frame and you got clear blueskies. So you've got the setup.
Nowsometimes you only need like a analyst
upgrade on that day.>> Call on me.
>> [laughter]>> What? What it was?
>> This is making me think of the SNDKbreakout in January. Where basically you
remember that 30-minute squeeze setupand then no one knew the news, but
overnight in Korea Samsung like raisedtheir prices.
And that was on 1 2.Basically where it then tested its
previous all-time high, did the stutterstep, and then the next day broke out.
And that falls in that small analyst.It's like a hidden catalyst, but it did
have something.>> 100% And that's the weird thing is a lot
of times there's like something thatbreaks these things out. It's just that
like if the setup is really good,sometimes it like someone just needs to
like sneeze. And like I mean Samsungraising prices is like actually pretty
significant. I I just can't believe thatdidn't make
like the front page of the New YorkTimes, but
you know, it's not a it's not alwaysthat easy.
>> That's why we got Claude doing the worknow.
>> Yeah, exactly. Uh but like it reminds meof like I think a good example of this
isTesla last year when it had that
beautiful weekly squeeze like like brokeabove
What was it?360 or something?
>> Um are you talking about that likeSeptember breakout?
>> Yeah, like we we took it and it itexploded hard for for 2 days and and
then kind of trended a little bit andthen topped out. Um really explosive
move.Musk went on a podcast like
the night before it broke out and talkedabout a bunch of stuff.
>> I remember that.>> like and we were joking that like we
were kind of like all right, well, Iguess it still had a catalyst, but it's
not like if he went on a podcast andTesla was just mid-range,
like you would just buy it the next daybecause
he went on a podcast, but sometimessomething like that is enough to get an
A+ chart pattern to fire.Um just because
it's got a lot of other things going forit. So, yeah.
Adds conviction. It became a hugedebate. Is a podcast a catalyst?
>> Yeah, we It's not a high-gradedcatalyst, but it is something.
>> Yeah. So, I mean, I would say with thecatalyst, it's like grade them well,
understand when it's an A+ catalyst thatcan stand on its own,
and understand when it's like a C-catalyst that might just be enough to
get a stock that's going to go higheranyway to do it today.
Right?>> Yeah.
100%. And the you mentioned theupgrades. Like that's an interesting one
becauseyou're never just buying for the most
part you're not just buying an upgradeor shorting a downgrade mid-range. But a
lot of times if something's close tobreaking out, you see like, oh, like
Bank of America or BAML upgraded themand then boom.
>> Yeah. It's like a domino effect, right?Cuz then they have to kind of buy it or
recommend it to their clients and theyput something out, people get
interested, maybe a few people buy it,it pushes above the level, everyone else
all the breakout traders now are gettingin and it's like
it's like a a vicious cycle.>> Have you heard this study of tens of
millions of traders which shows thatonly 1% of retail traders actually make
it?Don't be a statistic. Visit
smbtradingfloor.comto greatly increase your odds.
>> Number 11.Narrative.
And so, I put I put this after catalystbecause remember, this is all context
and this is the last one in the contextcategory.
UmI put this down because I think it's
really key and it's different than thancatalyst.
What do you think?>> I would go must have on this one. I'm
thinking about our breakout tradingand
in general, like it's not always themetrading. Um but this is a lot of theme
trading is you want to know like thestory of the stock and you want to be in
stocks that have good stories and theyhave reasons to go higher, reasons that
the street might be under pricing themright now and they're going to get
re-rated. And likeI'm thinking almost all of my best
trading, it's in stocks that have strongnarratives like growth. You can say
growth is a narrative, or it's like highEPS growth, revenue growth.
And it's exciting stories, like almostalways.
>> And the themes that we talk about, likesometimes these these hot themes start
to take off, and it's part of that,right?
>> Yeah.>> Like the space theme, and then all these
names are strong, and one sits up forlike a beautiful breakout, but because
it'sin that theme that's that's
got hype and and got that got that uhgot that zeitgeist going, right? It's
got the umthe what do we call it? The animal
spirits. Um>> Yeah. Like the analogy that's coming to
mind is like whenever America got reallydown on like cigarettes, and you let's
imagine you had like the best breakoutin Altria,
which I think's MO. It's like I don'tknow if the narrative's good
to be swinging that for a year.>> All right, so I mean that but that's a
good point. So, I want tosay to that point that
a narrative can also besomewhat of a combination of these other
checks in favor that create a narrativein your head for why
cuz again, under this context category,we're trying to answer the question,
does this have a reason to go? So, thequantum names. To me, like that had a
narrative because the narrative is thatthey suck.
And that they shouldn't they should notbe at these prices, yet they're
miraculously holding up, and they looklike they're going to break out, and
thenI think IonQ got one of those
kind of mediocre catalysts, and they allwent on huge volume. And so, you're just
the narrative is short squeeze. Thenarrative is
uh not supposed to be doing this, right?It's not so So, we don't have to be like
>> always fundamental. You're getting at.>> Yeah. Yeah, like don't have to be um
always like analysts. Like we're nottrying to like figure out valuations and
like where they should be. We're justtrying to figure out what's the driver.
So like when you're on when you'reanalyzing these earnings reports, you're
just trying to think like, okay, what'sthe driver here? Like what's what are
market participants going to dowith their money? And so
a massive short squeeze is actually areally good reason for what the market
participants might do with their money.>> I love the this shouldn't be happening
narrative. It's like think back to GME,[laughter]
but I coined that like this shouldn't behappening. Trying to think of what right
now is this shouldn't be happening.But I'm drawing a blank. I don't know if
we have anything like that.>> There's a lot that shouldn't be
happening probably>> Yeah, I mean like
all [laughter] ofthese commodity moves.
>> Um all right, so that that wraps upcontext and so now this is so
interesting. We don't haveOh wait, no, we got one must have, the
narrative. All right. So in in context,that's our must have. That's cool. I I
agree with that now that I'm looking atit. All right, so timing. So now this is
and there's four of theseon my list.
It this is trying to answer thequestion, is this happening now?
>> Yeah.>> Right? So now like we've got all of
these other things setting up the tradeand now giving us like a big reason to
get behind the potential of this move.So now we actually have to trade it. So
like how do we know it's breaking out?And these are the four things that
umchecks in favor that can can really help
us. Now this isn't necessarily like I'mnot talking about
um an entry pattern. I'm not talkingabout execution here. I'm still talking
about checks in favor, things that makethe trade
A plus, right? Or or lack thereof createa weakness in the setup. So
number 12,a volume moment.
So, what I mean by volume moment,cuz I could say like elevated volume, or
I could say like big R val.But, a lot of times when we say big R
val, we just mean like for the day. So,by the time that candle close, that
daily candle closes, does it print likehigher than average volume? And a lot of
times on a day one,that's what's going to happen,
especially on some of these big really,really good breakouts. Like, we want to
see like 5x average volume, or we wantto see over two standard deviations.
But,first of all, we don't know until the
market closes what that volume's goingto print on that daily
chart. So, we have to have a way ofknowing is it on pace for that. And then
also, we have these kind of exceptionsto this rule,
where we get a big blast of elevatedvolume in the morning as it breaks out.
And then maybe volume kind of dries upas it as the stock goes sideways and
digests,um for the and holds up above the
breakout level for the rest of the day,and then carries on,
you know, after that. So, it there theresurely was a volume moment through the
level.So, I the more I study these, the more I
realize thatvolume will the fingerprints of volume
will show up in various ways, and it'snot always the same. And so, if it's not
printing like two, three times itsaverage daily volume on that day,
you might have to like think about it ina little bit more nuanced way, and see
that there actually was like a reallyhuge pick up in volume when it blew
through the level.And it's holding above where that volume
came in. And so, volume moment meanslike any of these types of things, but
are we seeing something in the volume asit's breaking out that is an outlier
volume moment.>> You explained that really good cuz it
does show up in various ways and I wouldsay just the
check in favor that it does show up andyou get a volume moment is a must-have.
>> Yeah.>> Like that is critical to any breakout
trade or any day one where you thinkthis could be day one of a huge base
breakout. It's like you need to see itat some point in the day.
>> I can't argue with you because I mean,think about it. Like
like if your if your stock's justhanging around and it
it starts printing above the level andthere's like no increase in volume and
it's just kind of la- it's like actinglike
it's basically telling you like youryour pink line is
is I don't even know what your pink lineis all about.
>> That's exactly what it's telling you.It's like, why'd you even draw it?
>> Yeah, why'd you even draw this, right?It's not significant. Um volume is
telling us about participation. Volumeis fuel, meaning like the more volume
that comes in, the more volatility thatcan come in, which is what we want above
level.Um it's just the fingerprints of
market participants and the institutionsand the
the options market and all that stuffthat we want
when we have a breakout on our hands.>> Cuz yeah, we have everything all the
checks in favor we already mentioned andlike what this volume is is the
confirmation where it's like, you're notcrazy at all. Like you have all these
checks in favor and then it's confirmingin real time.
>> Yeah.All right. So, number 13,
clean tape.>> Ooh.
>> Do you want me to define that or do youknow what I mean?
>> Well,uh I kind of know what you mean, but
define it a little. Make sure I'm on thesame page.
>> Cuz cuz we I mean, we'll say like thetape is clean and what we mean by that
is justum
we're getting clean price action likeintraday. Like it's it's respecting
levels. Like the pullbacks are holdinglogical levels. It might be
consolidating in an orderly manner. Andthen when it breaks out, it goes with
conviction and doesn't back test toomuch. It's not wiki. And if you're
watching the tape,you can see the offers lift and the bids
step up. And it's just>> [clears throat]
>> it's easy A clean tape is easier toread. And And one of the things that
comes to mindum
for me is that Fastly tradethat we took that we talked about on one
of these episodes recently where thiswas an earnings play and
I didn't know how Fastly would tradewhen we took it. No idea. I mean, we
haven't traded that in like years.And especially on some of these earnings
day ones, like the tapewill could be kind of messy and you
know, it's kind of crowded and and youjust never know.
When that thing opened, it explodedthrough that pre-market high, held
higher, and the spread was like a penny.And you could just see the order flow.
The order flow just kept coming and keptcoming. It was like one of the most
liquiddays I've ever seen in a name. And that
tends to be a really, really good signfor momentum. Because you don't want to
see crickets out there with like a widespread and nobody hitting the bid and
the offer and then it just having theselike liquidity,
you know, moments where it's just thespread's opening up and it's dropping
and then like that's That doesn't lenditself
Not only does that not lend itself togood trading, but it it also kind of
doesn't lend itself to really goodmomentum.
It's just not It's just not the natureof a name that is going to get good
momentum. So,how important is this?
>> So, younger Tim would have put it maybein like an adds conviction, but
right nowuh I put it as a must-have because it
really reminds me of like a stock couldgo higher
in a very messy, choppy way where like,you know, super wiki, maybe it even like
retests the open or low of a daymultiple times and like we have a term
for it, we call it like mousing where itthen goes. And it's like,
if it goes higher, am I missing a greatbreakout trade in my playbook or a trade
I could crush or am I just worried aboutmissing that move? And it's like, if
it's not trading clean, I don't need tobe involved. It's fine. I don't need it.
>> Love that attitude. I actually thinkhaving this as a must-have is like a
great umpersonal defense mechanism against
trading garbage.Um
I I have a tough time putting it asmust-have because I know that likeI'm trying to think of examples, but it
might not need to be a clean trader toto truly break out and fall. Now, the
question is like, do you want to be apart of that?
>> FCG, if it's like really higher timeframe, you know.
>> Right. And it and and it's fineto not It's fine to be okay with not
being a part of that. So like I thinklike this is one of those ones where
it's like for you.If you want to make that a must-have, I
think that's completely acceptable. It'slike a personal preference. Maybe you
only want to trade stocks like that.Maybe you're better at being a little
bit more zoomed out and you're notbothered by
messy price action because you're you'reyou're just
Maybe you're just buying call spreadsand then then just risking to zero,
right? UmSo
but I I do think that is itclean price action is the hallmark of a
momentum stock.Typically, and people might have like
various tastes in terms of what theylike to see, but um
I I'm on the fence, man. I II have a tough time making it a
must-have, butI don't blame I don't blame you. No, I
don't I don't blame you. Like what Canyou think of a stock that broke out with
conviction that that did not have aclean tape?
>> This year like again it's like oneswhere I wasn't always even involved and
I'm likeI'm trying to see like some of these
fiber optics like were pretty tough likeintraday. Like there's a way to play
them. Like LITE great move like youknow, would I have wanted to be involved
in this move? Like yeah.But like [laughter]
I mean it ended up like holding the 10EMA like so well and like you know, went
from I'm looking at the chart like 406to 750 and it really was that earnings
report thatum
like kind of was the catalyst and thedriver. Um but if you look at like day
one I'm looking at 130like it basically got above your
breakout level, completely failed,retraced, closed red on the day, next
day gaps up, again fails like at thatsame day one level, closes kind of weak
but closes above the level.A couple like grind up days
um and then it gets bought from the 10EMA and that it kind of starts it. But
at the same point like I'm asking myselflike on any of those days where it
wasn't trading cleanlike would I have have been able to
crush it? Or like would I even be in thetrade if I was trying on those messy
clean unclean days? And I think theanswer is probably no.
Probably would have got chopped up and>> All right, we're going to
>> that's a decent example. I think I mean>> That's good. We're going to put it on a
must have.>> like you lose so many times like trading
something like IONQ with a tight stoplike versus a two-minute bar low and
you're like yep, this isn't this justdoesn't trade clean on a a bunch of
days. And when it does trade clean it'ssuper in play, you'll see it on the
volume, and the table be different.>> And all of these things play into each
other because like when you It's likewhen you have that volume moment, it
tends to trade clean. Whenyou've got
um some of these other factors lining uptogether, it it tends to trade cleaner,
too. So, um all right, we're going towe'll make that a must-have.
>> Ooh, yep.>> We're doing it. All right, so number 14,
hidden relative strength.>> Ooh, yeah.
>> an We had an episode about this.And
we call it hidden relative strength.This This is basically seeing the
relative strength of a stock without ithaving to rally.
Meaningevery time the the market ticks down,
and of course this works better withwith market-dependent stocks, but every
or you should just be watching thesympathies, you could be watching like
the group or whatever, butwhenever every time the market ticks
down,if if your stock holds, you're showing
hidden relative strength.Or if the market's going sideways and
yours like ticks up a little. It doesn'tmean like, "Oh man, our our stock's up
10%." That's not hidden.That's just relative strength.
Um but it's a way Like we often seethis, right like before right before the
stock breaks out. So, this is anotherlike timing thing where it's like
the day before, maybe even the morning,um you you start to see that thing like
hold and hold on on down ticks in themarket, and you're like, "Hmm, okay.
This This This only has one onedirection to go in right now."
>> Yeah, this is good. Like a fun projectfor us that I'm super curious about is
going back through all of our breakouttrades
and seeing if there was ever a time thatone was relatively weak before the
breakout.>> I cannot think of
>> Like I can't think of one, and I wouldbe shocked if there was even more than I
could count on on hands. Yeah, probablynot.
So,I would say uh um must have for this.
Like with our breakout trading, too,like
we're usually dealing with trying to bein the leading themes,
leading stocks within those themes.>> Yeah.
>> Andwhat that alludes to is these are
relatively strong themes and relativelystrong stocks.
Andhonestly, like the best thing to do is
when you get a little pullback likeyou're talking about what's showing
hidden relative strength, and then youhave that watchlist, and then you wait
for a breakout setup to develop based onall the checks in favor we put in the
must-haves with setup.>> Yeah.
>> So, yeah, I would say this is really bigin emphasis on the hidden.
>> Yeah, I agree cuz it's it's a to flipthat upside down, it's like it's one of
the worst things to sayto notice like, "Oh man, like the
market's rallying, but like you're thestock you're watching is not
participating.">> Yeah.
>> That's like>> It's great info.
>> hidden relative weakness or whatever,and that that's um
that's a red that's a real red flag,usually.
Um you know, it might just underperform,maybe it does go higher, but it's not
going to be the it's not going to be theall-star that that you were looking for.
Um all right, number 15, final one.>> Ooh.
>> Within striking distance.>> Explain.
>> Do you know what I mean? Okay.>> I have an idea, I get the vibe.
>> Yeah, it was it was hard to come up withlike a
like a name for this one, buthere we go.
It means that it closed the night beforeor and or is opening
very close to the break to the pinkline, to the breakout level. In other
words,it's not opening an ATR below the level
and has to run an ATR in the morning toget to the level.
To pay through that level, right? Like alot of Yeah, I'm not going to say
anymore.What do you think?
>> I love it. Uhmy gut's telling me that's a must-have.
>> [laughter]>> Like but there are So, gut's telling me
must-have. There are certain scenarioswhere I could like
kind of explain how you would tradedifferently and you still might be
partaking in building a breakoutposition day one.
But like if we're talking breakouttrading and it's running an ATR in the
level, like my fingers aren't on thekeys ready to hit the offer. Like very
much I'm likeall right, I don't think it's going to
be ready today because if it even doesget to the pink line, look at the energy
it spent to get there. You're looking atthe vol cycle, the squeezes, you're
looking at literally the ATR move andit's like
Yeah, what's the probability that thiscould make a measured move of that move
it made to just get to the breakoutlevel?
>> Yeah, and I and I think that this islike
this is a very specificsituation because we're talk we're
really talking about likeif the breakout happens on an opening
drive it it it just it just becomes adifferent trade.
>> Like if it That's what I was kind ofthinking.
>> And that's what you made me think ofwith your with your description because
if it opens an ATR away and runs intothe level, like now you've got the
liberty to kind of wait see if it canhold above or maybe it closes above, but
it's not going to like get away. And Ithink that the
Um I think that thethe big thing that we're trying to guard
ourselves against with this particularpoint
is when it's openingkind of just too far from the level.
Like maybe it's half an ATR.And it goes right off the open, Sprays
up like half an ATR in like2 minutes.
And and just prints at that pink lineand and that move can just get you so
excited because it looks like>> right now.
>> It looks like a like a just shot out ofa cannon.
But that type of price actionmost often results in a stuff at the
level where you're just you pay at thehigh and then you're caught holding the
bag.And then it completely fails back down.
Might even take>> and you're like, of course it failed
there.>> Right. So it's like very tough to pay
up after that kind of move right off theopen versus
it's openingright at the level. Or better yet, above
like right above the level. Maybe atight pre-market range and then you're
just paying through the pre-market highwith a stop below like the pre-market
low or something like that. But it'sit's opening where it doesn't have to
spend any energy to bust through thelevel. It's doing it early, right? It
might There might be a little dip firstand then a rip or maybe it rips right
off the open and goes throughpre-market high. But either way, we're
getting thatexplosion off the open
and it's breaking out before our eyeslike right away versus like
an illiquid spraylike up to the level that just it's
almost like a smoke and mirrors move.I would say that within striking
distance is adds conviction.>> And yeah.
>> the reason is because umor maybe even extra credit. It's just
something you have to be aware of.It It's not a must-have because it's not
the only way these break out. It's justthat like
>> Yeah.>> when it is within striking distance,
you're you don't have to worry about a ahost of of issues with that could
potentially arise with the trade interms of execution.
>> You're right. I'm with you. Honestly,you convinced me cuz like I'm thinking
too like you get a breakout close wherelike there's so many times we'll just be
like, all right, let's see where itcloses. And then it closes like all-time
high or, you know, above a huge base andyou're like, all right, yeah, this could
be really good. You get in on the close.>> Totally. And that could be like, you
know, closes above and that's great andI mean, you maybe you could qualify that
as within striking distance cuz it's theclose. But But you know what I mean. So,
let's doI'm in
What do you What do you think? Addsconviction or not?
>> conviction.>> Okay. We're going to do adds conviction
and I would just say you just put anasterisk
with that basically to say that likeit's just something to be super aware of
when we're trading these.Um all right, so that's
That's all 15>> lists. This was fun.
>> That's all 15. So, let me just talk Letme just do the must-haves.
All right, so we haveA+ pink line,
right? So, that's just abeautiful breakout level.
Higher time frame squeeze, socompression on the higher time frame,
long consolidation, weeks or months.Blue sky,meaning
either 52-week highs, all-time highs, orat least like no resistance, right? We
We want it to explode into space.Then we've got the narrative. It's got
to have some kind of narrative behindit.
Could be short interest, could becould be a theme.
Could be fund growth.Something, right? Could be the the Iran
stuff that's going on right now.Um
All right, what else? We gotvolume moment, clean tape,
and hidden relative strength.So, that's 1 2 3
4 5 6 7.>> Seven.
>> Seven checks in favor for breakouttrades.
>> That's pretty solid. And these, I mean,those are our seven.
>> That's it.We got We got And there's 15 to to think
about, too. So, um All right, man. Well,I think we did our job. We can now put
this up on a poster or something likethat.
>> There we go. T-shirts.>> Yeah. All right. Well, we're on Spotify
now. For those watching on YouTube,please check us out on Spotify. Check
out inside access, where you get to joinme on Tuesdays in Bionic Trader
meetings. We have a lot of fun sharingsome of these indicators that we talk
about and going over how we leveragethose.
Tim, until next time. I'll probably seeyou tomorrow.
>> Yeah.>> But, uh but I'll also see you in a week
here, and we'll do another one.>> Oh, yeah. More I like this list. You
bringing the list, so.I think we could We can maybe find
another one. This was a funI agree.
>> I agree.>> [music]
>> All right. Signing off. Thanks,everyone.