How much did you sell for? 44 million.
What's it like when you see that money
hit your account? I write in my book,
people have compared it to having sex.
1968, you got drafted to the Vietnam
War. You went into war with the mindset
that I'm going to die, right? There's a
whole another world out there. We can't
imagine. How many people did you
ultimately kill? Over 600 people. You
discovered John Cena, right? Could you
walk us through that exact story of how
you convinced John Cena to get into
wrestling? He was unbelievably focused
or driven. He was a machine. You can
have the gift, the talent, you can get
lucky, but then you've got to execute.
How old are you now? 80. I think you're
the sharpest damn 80-year-old I've ever
seen. If you have one guiding principle
for the younger generation, what would
that be? People don't understand that.
What's going on everybody and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we've got an
incredible guest for you guys today.
We're out in Los Angeles interviewing Ed
Connors. Ed, you've lived multiple
lifetimes in one to say the least. I
mean, you're one of the most fascinating
people that I've ever met and I've
interviewed some incredible people. You
bought the original Gold's gym in 1979,
grew it to over 700 locations. You
eventually sold uh the gym franchise. Uh
but before that, you were an architect
designing some of the most influential
buildings in Beverly Hills. You also
mentored and helped shape the careers of
some of the most prominent celebrities
in today's world.
But I want to go back to the very
beginning. 1968, you got drafted to the
Vietnam War. What's your mindset like in
that very moment? Right. Because that
was your first career was in the
military. Yes. Let's talk about that
real. I I had I had worked as a kid, you
know, uh paper route, you know,
shoveling snow, raking leaves, the usual
activities of people in that era. and
I'd worked uh all the summers uh in from
school uh usually in architectural
office in Omaha or I u uh I also uh got
involved with uh a number of other small
businesses. Uh but so it wasn't I really
I was wanting to begin my architecture
career but I was drafted for the army
and I I thought I was going to die. That
was my mindset. But you live in a
democracy and uh you have to go with the
majority of the v you know the voters at
the time I think believed the war in
Vietnam was justified and I had gone to
UC Berkeley so I was all part of that uh
anti-war movement because I I just saw
it as a civil war and I don't think our
country has really learned because we
got involved in Afghanistan and Iraq
which are basically civil wars.
So, no. I I thought I was going to die.
So, you thought you were going to die?
Yeah.
When you went over there? Yeah. What
were you doing for those that don't
know? I was uh in military intelligence
and I was basically targeting air
strikes, primarily B-52 air strikes. And
people don't understand that we talk
about nuclear war, but uh a three B-52s
in formation and dropping their bomb
loads can take out an area one by 3
kilometers. It would turn it to
basically to turn it into dust. Yeah. So
it's basically a a nuclear bomb without
without the radioactive aspect. So you
went into war with the mindset that I'm
going to die, right? But we were talking
about earlier that you learned something
from yourself in combat that you're a
lot tougher, right, than you realized at
the time. What was it that you realized
and what was that turning point, right?
Because, you know, you ended up earning
a lot of stars ultimately from, you
know, the sacrifices that you made and
what you were able to do defending your
country, right? What was it that you
learned about yourself that you took,
you know, beyond combat into the real
world? I learned you don't need all the
paraphernalia that we think you have to
have to survive. I mean basically you
know a sleeping bag and a duffel bag or
whatever you or a backpack that's it. I
mean again the veneer of civilization is
very thin. Uh you know I left Berkeley
thinking everybody needs an lounge chair
and all this beautiful architecture and
find out that you know we're we're
pretty much savages.
Uh and uh you know it
you know it just uh it's amazing how you
know basic you can you can survive
u and get by. I don't I don't ever
remember eating anything great. I was
there for 21 months. I I actually
extended beyond the normal tour of duty
because after a while you begin to think
you're going to live forever. You think
this is not your time to do die. And if
I extended in Vietnam uh and I had five
months left of service, I would be
discharged early. So you you'd
understand this with your military
background, but there were ways to get
out earlier if you extended in in in in
country. And of course that's the
difference between say Vietnam war and
it's kind of fascinating that I think
most of the soldiers that were in uh
Iraq or Afghanistan serve six-month tour
of duty but that's unfortunately when
when it's time to go to go home that's
when you actually are the most valuable
because you've learned so much though
being in country in Vietnam and for 12
months I had learned a lot and the fact
that I stayed on for another nine the
army wanted that because uh I had I had
learned to survive and I had learned a
lot about local customs. Mhm. Which made
a big difference and it kind of reminds
me of that perspective shift that you
know a lot of people have when when you
went into war zone you know like Jack
and I we were fortunate to be able to
see the world at an early age growing up
in a military household. We lived in
South Korea. One of the countries that
we visited was actually Cambodia, right?
And you it's a very poverstru country
where you'd see nine-year-old kids
floating around in the river in a trash
can like with their arm cut off. Yeah.
Did you have that realization when you
were in a war zone in combat that I
problems that I thought were so big were
nothing compared to the stuff that you
had to see when you were over there?
Exactly. And that's that's my hope with
all the men that I I forget how many
millions of Americans that men have been
through and women have been through the
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, but
they're seeing a third world country for
the first time. And you know, I had I
had been to Europe. I went I went to
Europe when I was 18 as part of a high
school tour. So I I'd seen I I was a
traveler. I love to travel, but I had
never been to a third world country. And
you know, that was a shock. And I'm I'm
sure it was for a lot of American um uh
men and women that uh you know there's
a whole another world out there we can't
imagine. Uh and I know it was uh it was
amazing. I I could never get over how
how clean and beautiful the Vietnamese
women looked in spite of the fact that
they were basically in mud patties. They
were wearing I think they call them
odes. They're they're beautiful silk
dresses or whatever they're made of. But
they, you know, they they look gorgeous
and they survived with that. And you
ended up receiving a bronze star
ultimately. I got a couple of them.
Yeah. And what did you get the stars
for? I I basically got it for my
targeting um of this air strikes. To put
in perspective, how many people did you
ultimately kill? Well, one of them was
for wiping out a North Vietnamese
regiment. How many people? Which would
be over 600 people. So you were about
the business over there. Well, again,
once you're there, it becomes a band of
brothers where you're um you know,
you're concerned about doing your job
well so that others will live. And
again, these these are these are bombs
that you know, they're not going to they
couldn't be turned into food to feed the
poor. This is this is the
military-industrial complex that built
all this ammunition that's going to get
spent anyway, right? You might as well
target it effectively.
going from war and being in that
environment and then coming back to the
US and having to kind of integrate back
into society. What was that like? Well,
that was a big shock because um I'm sure
you've seen in military when I got back
to US in in 71. Um it was like there was
no war going on. people were I mean
people could have cared less that I was
in Vietnam and they were and I was
ashamed in a way of of even talk I
didn't talk about it until the movie
Platoon came out that was kind of a
gamecher because that that movie to me
showed the uh what the war was really
like in terms of the environment the
rain was incred where I where I was
stationed in Vietnam it rained it was
during the monsoon it rained 75 inches a
month for one month for three months in
a row and I know because there were 600
helicopter opters at this the base. So
they were very accurate weather
information. So you know LA for example
is uh considered a desert. Any any place
is considered a desert with less than 12
inches of rain a year. LA gets about
three I think. So um you know that that
was the the enemy was the water and the
the mud was incredible. Just the filth.
I don't think I had dry underwear or
socks for 21 months.
Um, no, it was um, yeah, it's a whole,
it was another world that I had never
imagined. Um,
you know, poverty. Um, yeah. And one
thing that I've learned is that when you
are in military service, of course, it's
about serving your country, but it also
becomes even deeper than that. It's more
about the brotherhood amongst your your
your team members.
When you came back to the United States,
was there an element of brotherhood and
that element of just com like
companionism missing? Did you feel a
missing link there or how was that
return like? I tried to stay in touch
with a few of of uh my my people I'd
made friends with over there, but I I I
actually I'm still in touch with two of
them, but most didn't want to talk about
it or just went back to their own world.
Most were from smalltown America, uh,
the south. So So you've returned you've
returned back to the states, right?
What's what's next? What's the next
chapter in the story? What did you get
into next? Did you return back to your
career or what happened next? I I sent a
letter to an architecture firm in in the
in the east coast that who I like whose
work I liked. So I said, you know, I
love your work. I want to work for you.
And I got the job. I went back to work
for Kevin Roach, John Dinkaloo
Associates and Kevin
Kevin Roach would be considered a
starchitech in today's world but back
then they didn't have that label.
So I worked on some incredible buildings
and uh got a sense of of you know what
good design is all about
and then uh uh you know it was an
amazing exp we worked on a lot of
projects which back then were were
getting built. No, I I I worked on a lot
of corporate headquarters.
So,
a decade after Vietnam, 1979,
you saved up some money from your career
in architecture by designing buildings
in Los Angeles and Beverly Hills, right?
You find Gold's Gym, right? It's one
location at the time, right? What was
that conversation like going to acquire
them? What did you see at the time, you
know, because back then like like now it
makes sense, right? It's a proven model,
right? Recurring business model. What
did you see at the time in Gold's Gym?
Well, I remember I mean I remember going
into the gym and and probably in the in
the late 70s, 77 maybe, and saying,
"God, it would be neat to own this." So,
I I visualized it. I And the same thing
happened with my last house in Venice on
the beach. I remember uh going to it and
and thinking, "God, it'd be neat to own
this." And and why? just it was a
fantastic space or or atmosphere and you
know then with my house in Venice I
think a few you know a few weeks later I
owned it with the gym you know several
years later I ended up owning it but I
think part of it you know is thinking
positive and and visualizing
um you really um you've got to stay
positive and not not think of the
negatives and uh it was you know crazy
you know this architect look going in
gold gym and thinking god it'd be neat
to own this and suddenly you you know, I
do. Um, yeah, it was magical, but all
because I I was nice to Primkowski. I I
helped him get to California, become Mr.
World, and he remembered that. So, it
was the these chance encounters, which
is what I was talking to you earlier
about that I think are missing with all
those smart technology we have, the the
phones. If if I'm not mistaken, Gold's
gym was started by a gentleman named I
know his last name was Gold. What was
his name? Joe Gold. Joe Gold. And did
you approach him with your partners and
have a conversation? No, actually Joe
Gold started Gold's Gym in 1965 and then
he sold it to someone who sold it to
someone who sold it to just one
location. Yeah, just one location. Was
it struggling at the time when you Yeah,
it was struggling. It was in fact uh the
the owner at the time, Ken Sprag, his
wife had just died and um uh she had
been running the the bit the gym and he
didn't want the headaches. You he was
losing money. he really he was involved
in other things in in entertainment
industry. So that gets back to really an
important point I I think for your
listeners is that when you buy a
business you need to understand know why
it's failing or why it's for sale. Um,
and certainly if it's bad management,
you know, I mean, there really three
three things that make up a gym.
Location, capital, and management. And
so if you if you can buy a business at
the right price and know that you're a
better manager and have access to
capital, then it makes sense. But he was
he didn't want to pour any more money
into it. When we lost money the first
year we owned it, we we grossed a
quarter of a million and lost 15 grand
or something. uh because we Joe Weider
pulled pulled our our ads in the
magazine and so that's when I became
friends with Joe Weider to try and help
him and get our mag our ads back in the
magazine. So you were marketing through
just smart magazines, right? Those
little certain size ads in the back of
the magazines.
I don't know what the counterpart is
today, but uh those were invaluable in
terms of getting uh income for your
product. And you didn't pay to get in
the magazines either? No. Why not? We we
made a deal with Joe that we would allow
him to film in our gym, whereas the
other gyms in the area would wouldn't
allow that. And and uh you know, he
needed people he needed um people of
Southern Cal the whole look of Southern
California to make his magazine
successful. He was selling that that
image that that that that
world of health and fitness and he
needed our gym to make that sale.
Ed, when you initially bought Gold's
Gym, what was that initial business plan
like? What were the action steps you
were like, "Okay, these are the first
things that we need to fix to turn this
business around." Well, the first thing
I thought of was the uh again getting
the magazine ads back in place because
that was a large portion of our income.
Um we were, you know, printing t-shirts
was like printing money and it still is
really. I don't know why they've gotten
so expensive. We we could buy in
quantity a t-shirt for $2.25 silkcreen.
We could sell it to our gym owners for
$4.50 and they could sell it for $9.95.
So everybody made money. And nowadays
the t-shirt they're more available. Back
then it was only that you had to buy
from the southeast US. Now it's all you
buy from all over the world and the
quality is just as good or better. So
it's uh you know it was and people
wanted to have a gold gym. more people
have worn the the gold gym clothing than
have trained in the gyms. They wanted to
identify with that healthy lifestyle. I
think because this this is back in the
day when AIDS was ringing its raising
its ugly head. Uh herpes, social
diseases were much in discussion and um
I you know you people were not going to
bars anymore. They were gyms became the
the the new bars of the of the 80s and
90s because that was a place where you
would go to supposedly meet healthy
people. And so
when you bought that first Gold's gym in
1979, you had those problems that you
had to fix. How did you sort of transfer
that in order to expand and start
building new locations? What was that
second location that you guys look to
expand to? Well, this goes to how much
of life is about luck or fate because I
was working for Charles Emmes and
Associates in Venice. Um, and that you
know probably your viewers know the the
EMS lounge chair is one of his famous uh
productions or the chairs you see
outside this room. Um, and uh, there was
a building a couple blocks down that was
for lease or a one bay of a 4 bay
warehouse. And I saw that and I thought
and we were having trouble in Santa
Monica with the police with the landlord
and I said, "Why don't we move the gym
back to its roots, back to Venice?" So,
we moved the gym in 1981 back from 4,500
square feet in in Santa Monica on Second
Street to 9100 square feet in Venice.
And then over the next nine years, we
grew the gym into 26,000 square feet. So
again, luck because we were able to
expand in place into each each bay over
time. And for you know, the other the
other tenants who thought we wouldn't
last actually failed and moved out and
we then took over their space. So uh
that allowed us to develop a 26,000 foot
gym which became the model for gyms all
over America for two decades. that was
that was considered that's the kind of
gym you do and I was telling James
earlier then it around the the year 2000
it all began to split where you needed a
low you know a lowcost model a middle
model and a high-end model like equinox
or lifetime fitness or so again the
business was evolving and this is what I
don't people understand they don't
understand change um is that things you
just can't build a a 35,000 foot box
like lifetime or 24-hour and expect it
to work forever. Uh the models change
because of of all the tech everything
around. I mean imagine you know Kodak or
Xerox or think about the things that
became but people thought they would
probably last forever.
And what what were some of those
challenges that you faced like of course
like you know this market really well
but as especially as you all decided to
scale outside of maybe the Southern
California area, right? What were some
of those challenges that you faced as
you scaled from location to location to
location? We were we were we were
licensing or franchising eventually. So
um it was our owners who had basically
their issue was raising getting money
and a lot of it of course was family
money uh because banks you know weren't
were not they didn't like gyms because
they were they were largely a cash
business
uh and it was basically the introduction
of EFT which started in Germany that
allowed uh the whole membership the
whole monthly due situation to to come
into existence. you know, without that
we we could never have sold because the
private equity people couldn't couldn't
trust the money. I wanted to talk about
you said earlier that it was like 20
plus years of having to go back and
forth with banks. Yeah. What was that
shift when you kind of went to them?
What did you learn about going to
negotiate with the banks to get access
to the capital? Well, they wanted our
cash flow. um you know they we had you
know we had membership money coming in
and that was very attractive to them and
uh uh we we also tried to factor our
clothing business to get access to uh
money in advance of orders and we could
show them orders. So but it was it was
still um every year for 10 years we had
to change banks and then finally we we
ended up with City National Bank and
they they were good they were good to
work with. I I insisted on monthly
meetings with our banker and I think
that that's getting back again to the
personal touch. Um if you know like just
like with the gym, if you never see if
you never have contact with a human
being in the gym behind the counter,
you're not going to renew your
membership when it comes up in a year if
that's the first time you're seeing that
person. Now, when gold's really started
to explode going into over 30 countries,
but even just throughout the US, right,
like the demand increasingly grew and
grew and grew, what did you and your,
you know, fellow owners do to ensure
that the standard of each location was
being met? Cuz I know that you placed a
big emphasis on the brand of golds,
upholding that good customer experience
and having great standards at all them.
Is there something that you did to
instill that in all the different, you
know, people that were running the
different locations? We had two
full-time inspectors and I I myself got
involved, you know, I loved to travel. I
being an architect, I had looked on many
of their plans or marked them up and so
uh we we would go around the country and
in fact that was kind of a funny uh I
remember the first board meeting I had
when we sold to Brockway Moran in 1999.
Uh they said, "Ed, why are why are your
franchise agreements only five years?"
uh when you know McDonald's is 10 and 10
and 20 and um I said well that's that's
the length of the probably the likely
wear of the carpet in other words we
wanted to have a sort of a hammer to
hold over their head saying you know
we'll we'll renew you but you've got to
recarpet and this is again the days
before uh rubber flooring
I think I invented rubber flooring
because when the I put down a turf
initially in the gold gym in Venice and
when that began to wear out. I think,
well, this is not going to work long
term. But there was no rubber flooring
industry back then. So, we bought a used
conveyor belt and glued down and that
worked. Do do you have a story about a
time where you went to go inspect a
location and there was just some bad
going on there or you were just
like, well, funny stuff. Uh because we
we we pioneered co-ed fitness and I
remember going to a gym in I think it
was Ventura
uh and the the guy the owner said well
we don't have many women members and
when I when I went into his his women's
locker room I saw why because they had
gang showers for the women and and back
in the day gang showers for the men you
know which I had seen in the army and
which were kind of popular among private
you know men's clubs back and what
worked. But then very quickly in Venice,
we had to put up partitions. But yeah,
you you can't expect to draw female
members if you if you're going to give
them gang showers.
And your your background is in
architecture. Yeah. So I'm c how did
that kind of play a role in the design
and the creating of the atmosphere of
the Gold's Gym with that background? I
think it played a big a big big role
because uh I mean it's just common sense
stuff that you you think of the
architects were were so geared to
thinking about how people use the space
for instance in a locker you know room
first off it's typically probably the
only area you're going to get a restroom
in the gym. So you want to make it so
that somebody could go in and out quickly
without going through the wet area or
the the locker area. And that's where
you get the theft. You get the dry feet
mixing with the wet feet. It's just
common sense to lay it out so that that
doesn't happen. Uh but and of course it
always amazed me that with most building
departments, we had to put in more
toilets, water closet, urinals than the
average restaurant. You know, where are
you more likely to need to go to the
bathroom restroom? You know, most of
these, you know, so many restaurants
even in LA, I mean, it's a it's a
oneholder. It's uh it's ridiculous. So,
um, yeah, common sense stuff like that.
Or you put your leg area in the back.
You don't want to have people come in
and and see, you know, that area
necessarily because it'll scare them.
Um, or, you know, I would put cardio up
front in some way because people say,
"Well, yeah, I can ride a bike. I could
join this gym." So, it's almost like you
designed it in a way to cater towards
the beginners. Yeah. And it's all it's
always about like that you're putting
the customer experience first. And what
are the things that I guess just like
from the initial location to
scaling? What are the key things about
talking to the customer and learning
about customer experience? What are some
of those things you learned about just
de developing the best product possible?
Again, I think I had 537 house guests
over the last 45 years. I think uh their
rea, you know, their feedback was
invaluable in in in getting, you know,
what what they like or dislike about the
gym. Like the music was a big deal. I
talk about this in my book. Uh people
don't realize it, but back then uh that
that was the common vibe. And nowadays,
everybody's got something in their head.
I mean, it's a Walkman's and you know,
earbuds and head headsets. Now, they're
on their they're on their own little
world and that really is a a downer. I
mean, people say, "Why how come the why
was a gym so exciting when you when you
owned it?" Well, it was largely the
music made a big difference. Simple
things like that. I mean, how many
restaurants or bars you go in these days
and you can barely talk because the
music's and there's so all this
distraction, all this all this, you
know, on the wall. These, you know,
who wants to watch golf or hockey and
you can't even talk, you know, people
are on their phones, they're not engaged
with each other. And I think I think
it's just a testament of why Gold was so
successful is because it's the attention
to those small details. Some of you
mentioned about restaurants and a
personal pet peeve of mine is when they
have the screeching loud chairs when in
reality it's probably, you know, 25
cents to just put a little thing on on
the bottom of it so that the chairs
don't squeak very loud. You know, it's
just like Yeah, those details are
important. What most people don't know,
when we walked into this building today
to do this podcast, we walked in and you
took a look at the ceiling and you took
a look at the tile on the ground and you
could tell very specific details about
it. So you can tell the passion is still
there from an architecture standpoint.
Why did you want to become an
architecture? Cuz obviously that shaped
later on to help impact the expansion of
the specific Gold's gym locations. Why
did you want to become an architect?
Like what what was your feeling behind
that? It was the earliest uh memory I
had of of I came to Disneyland for the
grand opening in 1955.
My grand my grandfather was vice
president of the Union Pacific and he
had a private railroad car. So my
grandmother who was in my very
influential in my life uh said well
let's go to the grand opening. So I
remember coming here and I still have
the postcard I I I sent back home uh
with from the uh the hotel downtown on
Persian Square and I said you know I
want to live here. I want to be an
architect because it it was just such LA
was so exciting. Uh and again I think
that's part of again one of the one of
the messages in my my book is that you
need to big move to a big city I think
to really develop your potential. You
can't unfortunately you can't do it in
nosebleleed Iowa. You got to move to the
big city. You got to get to where the
money is. Yeah. So you know you took the
inspiration of being an architect in to
help you design the gyms. I'm going to
assume that one of the things that the
Vietnam War taught you was brotherhood
and camaraderie. And to me, when I think
of the gym business, the fitness
industry, I don't just think of it as
going to work out and self-improve and
change your lives. I can say for the
three of us, we've met some of our best
friends in the gym. It's the community
aspect. How big of an emphasis as you're
growing, expanding this to over 700
locations? How big of an emphasis was
community and brotherhood when you were
building these gyms? It was huge. And
then that was one reason we had an
annual convention in Las Vegas because
everybody loves going there. and we
could get all of our we gave our owners
uh three free three free room nights in
the one of the major hotels on the
strip. So they were all together for at
least three days maybe longer and that's
that built that camaraderie and then
they probably learned more from re
interacting with each other than they
did from any of our seminars because
they were getting real life stories
about how to run their business. Um that
was huge. And one of the things I'm
learning from you right now is that Ed,
you didn't leave any money on the table
in the sense of not only did you have
the gyms, right? You ended up buying the
real estate, but you have the recurring
revenue coming in from the subscriptions
to the gym, you had events, you had
merch. How important was it for you in
the fitness industry to vertically
integrate and kind of own all the
different aspects of the businesses that
you're involved in? I think it's very
important for an owner to own the real
estate as as you know easily as or
quickly as possible because uh you know
there are so many uh bad landlords out
there. I mean you can see it right right
now in LA. I mean it was so much empty.
People are not being realistic or smart
and lot there a lot of dumb I mean when
we when we bought the gym in in uh on
the in Santa Monica we had a we had a
horrible landlord and I could see it
going nowhere with his attorneys. Um in
fact how how horrible it was. It was
Peter Blake who was the star of TV
series eventually uh lost a case
regarding murdering his wife. So I mean
that that's the kind of person you know
we were renting from which we had we had
inherited when we bought the gym. So
yeah I think uh the more you can own the
better um because you have control over
it. And how did you ultimately own the
real estate at a lot of these locations?
Was it just from getting the money from
you know that first gym that you had
bought and then you're like okay when we
get this next location we're going to
buy the real estate or what was that
process? I think a part of it was uh you
know finding the right kind of building
or owner or being able to see the like
if you were if you the building well
there many stories that but um if you
could see an older owner and knowing
that his kids would would probably
inherit the building but they would want
to sell it right away that was kind of a
no-brainer. I mean there's certain types
of so it's really important to u to get
to know your landlord and that's the
most import crucial time in a business
when you can walk away from the deal
don't rush into we had too many gym
owners who in the back of their mind oh
I want to they bought the franchise they
want to open in three months or five
month whatever but that that time to
negotiate a lease or find a building is
is really important and so despite being
around a ton of bodybuilders your whole
life Yeah. You mentioned that you you've
always been the guy in the suit and tie
and even on the cover of your book, it's
you in a suit and tie with two
bodybuilders and so what brought you to
um this culture and this community
despite you know coming from more of a
business architect? I think well this is
this is my body armor. U one of my house
guests Bob Paris wrote a wonderful book
called Gorilla Suit. So when you see
these big guys I think that that muscle
is their their their blue blade. I in
fact I wore a blue blazer almost every
day. I had a half a dozen and I would
wear one every day for for the entire
time and so they call me in fact they
call me the blue blazer and in fact one
of the wrestlers even adopted that name
in the ring was the blue blazer. Um but
I think part of it well I I I'm there
I'm the businessman. I'm there to teach
you the business. Pete and Tim and who
are bodybuilders you know would wear
their their you know their gym clothes.
They're there to help you train. Pete
was Mr. World. Tim was Mr. Empire State.
Um, they were passionate about fitness
and Tim was really into the equipment.
Uh, which is key to get somebody who has
a passion for fitness who loves the gym
equipment. For the for the people
watching, right, you had how many house
guests did you say? 537. Can you give
some context to them of some of these
people that you brought into your house
and ultimately mentored? Give give them
some of these names that you used to
work with. Well, in the back of my book,
I I summarize the the various
where where they some of them ended up.
I 102 were pro bodybuilders. I think 70
some were gym owners. Um 23 started
supplement companies that that probably
did a billion dollars last year in
sales. Give us an idea of some of these
names. Who are some of these people?
Well, um you may not Well, I don't know
if people wouldn't know them. Gerard
Dente or Rich Gaspari.
um you know, Gaspari Nutrition or Gerard
Dente had um Muscle Meds and MHP.
Um Dave Enders, uh company called You
Jay Cutler was another one. Jay Cutler
now has his own supplement company. Who
are some of the wrestlers? Oh, Jim
Hellwe the Ultimate Warrior, Sting,
Randy Orton, John Cena. John Cena. Let
me ask you this. among all of the people
that kind of came under your belt that
you had mentored, you had, you know, had
the chance to really see them really
come up, what is it that separated the
ones that made it and the ones that
didn't? They didn't believe in
themselves as much as I did. I tell
people if you look at those 537 names,
if more of them believed in themselves
as much as I did, there'd be more John
Cena or Jay Cutlers. So John Cena had
like an unwavering. He was he was
unbelievably focused or driven. It was a
machine. Was that innate or was it with
the community that he had ever had? Uh,
he had a goal. I mean, like when his his
his first wife came out to stay with him
in one of my homes in Venice, uh, she
didn't like V. Venice is kind of an
acquired taste. I don't know if you've
been down there, but it doesn't agree
with everybody. And she went, she didn't
like it and she sent her back home to
Boston. I said, John, if it's meant to
be, you'll marry her 10 years from now.
and he ended up marrying her 12 years I
think later but it lasted less than two
years because um he had this goal in his
mind. I mean you know these wrestlers
are on the road 25 days a month. It's
it's a you know it's a it's a lifestyle
you can't you know and John I think has
given up having kids because uh he
realizes he couldn't raise them
properly. So um he's on his second
marriage with a beautiful Iranian woman
from Iran. Um, but no, it's uh it's all
about again, you can have the the gift,
the talent, you can get lucky, but then
you've got to execute. And a lot of
people just um they give up too early.
So, I know we're talking about him, but I
but I don't think enough people
realize you discovered John Cena, right?
Could you walk us through that exact
story of how you convinced John Cena to
get into wrestling?
Well, he talks about it the forward in
my book, his version, and I have my
version later on in the book, but but we
both agree that he was he was on spring
break. He was out to see a girlfriend in
in LA and he was training at Venice
and I saw him working out. And I think I
was telling you earlier, I think living
in LA, you you begin to look look at
people and think, "Oh, yeah, he looks
kind of like a, you know, Matt Damon or
Mark Wahberg or whatever." And Mark
Wahlberg was Marky Mark back then. He
was training in the gym and I said, you
know, he looks like a big Mark Wahberg
or or big Matt Damon. So I approached
him in the parking lot. I remember I
tapped him on the shoulder and I said,
"Have you ever thought about pro
wrestling?" And his exact words I'll
never for He said, "It would be my
dream." But he said, "There's just no
way I could ever do that. I don't, you
know, I'm, you know, I'm going through
no I couldn't possibly get out here to
pursue wrestling school, whatever." I
said, "Well, I could make that happen."
So he came out after he graduated uh
stayed in my home I think about five
months with other house guests going
through and went through wrestling
school. And back in the day it was
harder because rather than going to the
training center in Orlando now you have
to go to you know wrestling school in in
the city where wherever you are. So he
beat out the talent. He he was
discovered essentially by the WWE
scouts. I mean, I may have said
something to them, but um they they gave
him a contract 18 months later after I
met him. And how what was your
affiliation with the WWE in in the
wrestling world? How did you kind of get
into that for those that don't know? In
the early 80s, uh Vince McMahon tried to
buy us. Um he was um he was
consolidating wrestling leagues all over
the US, but this is when the golden gyms
are beginning to pop up all over the
country. and he he saw his wrestlers
training in our gyms with there was no
other place to train and they would they
would put on a gold gym t-shirt. They
would go in the ring in front of 15,000
people in the hometown, tear off the
shirt and then you know do uh uh do
maybe even a TV show out from that town.
So our our Vince McMahon I think as a
marketing genius he is you know well I'm
giving this gold gym all his street
publicity I might as well own it again
your vertical in integration.
So we we met with him but we you know we
we we asked in his opinion for too much
money but ironically it's what we sold
for you know many years later. And how
much did you sell for? 44 million. I
remember asking Vince for 40 million and
he said no at first. No. So you didn't
settle. No. I got to ask you uh you
sell. Yeah. What's it like when you see
that money hit your account? Well, I I
write in my book, people have compared
it to having sex, and I would I would
agree. U Yeah, when it hits, you know,
you call your bank and it hits the your
accounts, it's pretty fantastic. I love
that. What did What did that day look
like? Did you Did you do anything to
celebrate? Well, what did that day look
like for you? Well, I I didn't really um
I I took stock and note and less cash
and to do the deal to make it work. my
partner Pete took more. So, I didn't
really I had enough cash to pay off my
my mortgage, my beach house. So, that's
immediately what I did with that money.
Four years later, five years later, when
we when I got the rest of my money,
that's when I I went out and had a nice
meal. But I was telling James that I I'd
always had in the back of my mind some
expensive car, but I ended up buying a a
used Mercedes convertible for 15 grand
because I'd had se several of them. and
and one event belonged to the Albert
Warrior, but I loved again design-wise,
I think, you know, the the old Mercedes
convertibles are just a beautiful
classic. Mhm. And so I I that's what I
bought. But uh you know, it can't buy it
can't buy happiness, but it buys
freedom. Yeah. So uh you know, Ed, we
talked about it earlier that Yeah. a lot
of your mentors died when you were
really young. Mhm. And I wanted to kind
of collapse time real quick for
everybody watching right now, but then
also, you know, to really figure out
what it is that you instilled in all the
people that were coming up when they
were young. What are some of those
lessons that you instilled in them that
you would instill in your younger self?
You know, at a time when maybe you had
lost your mentors. Let's go to that
younger version of you who was aspiring
to be a learner and a sponge. And if he
had the opportunity to get mentored from
you, what are those the lessons that you
would It's so important to be positive.
You've got to find out what's what's
good in you and and and and be be very
positive about it. You can't ever be
negative.
You've got a team. You need to find out
what each person does well and encourage
that. And you can't be you can't be
negative at all. I mean, people would
joke with me, Ed, if you told someone
they look small three times in a day,
they'd probably go kill themselves. Mhm.
So, I had to be very careful about what
I would I mean, I would get I would get
resumes, you know, photographs or videos
of people saying, "Well, Ed, do you
think I could be Mr. Olympia?" Well, I
wouldn't lie to them, but I'm not going
to also encourage something I don't see.
So, I would I was kind of the, you know,
the guy behind the curtain like the
Wizard of Oz for many years because I
didn't want to hurt people's feelings.
Yeah. And I I've I've learned from you
and just the most successful people that
we've met and that we've interviewed the
power and the importance of mentorship.
And it's a big reason why we actually
started and built one of the biggest
communities for business owners in the
entire world. It's called the school of
mentors. And every single week we
literally give access to people all over
the world to come in on live calls and
get access to the multi-millionaire and
billionaire entrepreneurs that we
interview just like yourself. And so for
everybody watching right now, guys, if
you guys want the ability to get
mentored every week from the millionaire
and billionaire entrepreneurs that we
interview and ask your specific
questions to them on live calls, we
built the number one community for
business owners, over 4,000 members and
live calls every week with heavy
hitters. So go down to the link in the
description of this video to join the
community. We can't wait to see you on
the inside. But back to kind of another
question. Who were those people or not
those people, your parents? Any specific
lessons that they taught you? You'd
mentioned that they were depression
parents, right? What did you learn from
your mom and dad? I think I learned the
value of work. Um, you know, we weren't
given anything. And you were expected,
uh, even though my dad was a surgeon,
uh, you were expected to work from day
one. Uh, I had a paper route from the
earliest day I can remember. And I
remember always, you know, raking leaves
or shoveling snow for money in Omaha,
Nebraska. Uh, and every summer I worked,
you know, there was no, it was just
understood that you were going to work
somewhere. My dad was a a doctor to a
number of factories. So in high school I
I worked at you know like Continental
Can or or I got bluecollar work and saw
that and I think these are you know
great life experiences but my parents
were you know overly cautious again you
know they never had credit cards or
debit whatever um they always would say
well Ed you know be careful you might
get hurt but my grandparents were saying
you know Ed god you're you're incredible
you could do anything and my grandfather
you know I'll never forget he uh he vice
president of Union Pacific. He had he
was in charge of operations. We see
60,000 men under him and I was in awe of
him and I would I would say that quite
often to him and he said at you know
when he retired he said Ed you know the
smart ones left for the air airlines. So
in other words he was saying well yeah I
was I was successful in that but I I
didn't have the the foresight to know to
leave for the airline industry which a
lot of I guess uh railroad people did.
They saw the future in that. There's
there's a saying that we love here at
the school of hard knock because I want
to go back to scaling. Yeah. Is the
saying that we love is that every new
level has a new devil. Mhm. And there's
different challenges because you came in
at one location eventually scaled to 700
before you left. There's different
challenges between scaling from 0 to 10
locations and there is 50 to 100 then
100 to 700. What were the different
challenges that you faced at every step
and is there someone that you brought in
to help you scale? Well, that was an
important point where um we uh we
brought in a uh someone who had worked
for McDonald's and uh McDonald's was my
if you talk about mentor um I've read
several books on McDonald's. It's an
incredible story. But, you know, again,
their what they offer, you know, is is
very much what a gym offered in terms
of, you know, being a friendly,
well-maintained, well equipped place.
And in their case, they have a product.
But, um, we hired somebody who had also
gone to onto McKenzie, which was back
then was a really highly regarded, uh,
um, uh, consulting company. A little
tarnish now, but still sort of good. And
um we we hired him to look at our our
franchise fees because um you know we
weren't people were beginning to charge
other compet competitors were charging
what I thought were high franchise fees.
So, I wanted to know from an expert what
we could reasonably charge and get away
with. And he came up with a number. And
that's why I think so many of the gym
franchise out there now are are
overpriced because they're charging what
fast food charges 7% maybe of gross
revenue. Well, if you're not making any
money, you know, that's that's hurts.
And, you know, we don't McDonald's, you
know, you they they're they're your
landlord typically. And you know, we
don't most gym franchises don't do as
much for a gym owner as what say a fast
food company does. I mean, McDonald's
pretty much does it all. We we we did
end up having it. We we in 1997, we
opened a Gold Gym University.
At some point, you know, when we
started, there was no manual. Uh we were
inventing a new business. And over time,
we thought we got to a manual that was,
you know, ridiculous. Uh over time, we
thought we knew enough. We had to pass
that knowledge on to our owners or we
were basically negligent or or immoral
even. You know, you have to you have to
help your franchises succeed and some
point you've got to share as much as you
know. But in the beginning there was
nothing. So it got more sophisticated as
we grew. So in the beginning it starts
off it's probably just you and your
founders your your co-founders just you
know scaling the franchises yourself
with everything. you're figuring it out
yourself and then you start to build a
manual and at what point did you start
to offer franchising to other other
people? quite a quite a few. We, you
know, I was the first franchise in 1980,
you know, 45 years ago, but we didn't
really start franchising entire country
until uh 96, 1996. There were some
states where we couldn't go into because
like New York State because they didn't
they didn't recognize the difference
between a license and a franchise. And
then that's the difference. A franchise
uh you have a business plan. You have a
you have a trademark. You're charging a
fee for the use of that. and you have a
business plan. A license ne doesn't
necessarily have a business plan
attached. But but at some point we
thought we knew enough that we had to
give our owners a manual and a school.
Something I find really interesting
because you guys did offer franchising,
but there's also another model and it's
a different industry, but Chipotle, for
example, they own all of their stores.
They're privately owned. Why did you
guys decide to ultimately go the
franchise route versus going privately
owned? Because we're in a real service
business. uh not food. I I remember I
met with the founder of PF Chens in in
Santa Monica many many years ago and he
asked my advice about fr and same way
with Jane Fonda too uh asked my advice
about franchising and I said no you know
you should own them all because you're
dealing there with a food product which
you've got like McDonald's which you've
got to keep consistent. I mean they've
done it with franchising but it's very
they have a lot of company owned stores
too but no we were we want people local
people who can build community and I
don't think you can do that. I mean, God
bless the big chains in America that
are, you know, have hundred, but they're
they're all over the place now, too,
because I don't think you can replicate
that that same quality of service with a
franchise in in in this industry, you
know, and think about it. How many how
many how many businesses are there like
a gym business? It's so much about
people.
Um, yeah. I wanted to talk real quick
about your ingredients to success. that
you've talked about hard work,
perseverance, team building, but one of
these that we talked about earlier was
luck. How big of a factor was luck for
you and your success? It was it was
huge. Uh and again, this is I've read a
lot of biographies, autobiographies, and
that always comes up. I just saw someone
the other day uh wrote a Oh, yeah. Uh
Barry Diller just came out with a book
uh and he he
luckiest man alive. What was an instance
in your career when you're growing golds
that was just pure luck that you can't
attribute? Finding the building if we
had if we'd been trapped in Santa Monica
and never gotten that building in Venice
that happened to be like an accordion
file where you could just expand over
nine years to 26 we would have been
dead. I think there were other gyms that
came in to compete with us but they were
smaller and couldn't grow. So we could
grow in place. That was incredible luck.
as you were growing, I'm sure that you
had a lot of competitors come in. Did
you have a lot of copycats that were
coming in as Yeah, people began to copy,
you know, that and uh but they were
either smaller or couldn't grow and they
also I don't think were probably as
adaptable as you. No, you were committed
to change. Yeah. What is it at every
level, at every new year, every new
decade? How did you keep on innovating
and staying on top of the trends that
were coming into fitness? You know, you
you when I when Pete Tim and I bought
the gym in in 79, there wasn't one bike
in the gym. Cardio was, you know,
unknown. And I saw people riding uh
bikes on Venice Beach and it's one of my
favorite activities. And I said, well,
you know, we ought to bring this inside
for when days it rains. So, that became
we, you know, initially we put the bikes
on top of the restroom in the first room
and the maintenance shed because it's a
boring activity. And this way you could
be kind of entertained watching people
on the gym floor. And so, you know,
later on when when big screen TVs became
in existence, we we put a we put we put
it put them in a separate room with a
big TV. We called it bikes in front of
the TV. Now that someone trademarked as
cardio theater, but that's how this
evolved. And I remember when we put I
actually have letters I got death
threats of putting in aerobics in
Goldstein Venice. How could the Mecca
have have aerobics have, you know,
female members like that? And uh that
but that was important. That was an
important part of getting women into the
gym and taking over from what Jane Fonda
started.
There is there's there's a big change
there. You kind you said you pretty much
pioneered co-ed gyms. Yeah. Why why did
you decide to make that, you know, a key
component of goals gym? And what were
some of the challenges you kind of dealt
with that? We knew part of the uh
membership back in the when we bought
the gym were quite a few female
bodybuilders and the gold gym in Santa
Monica really didn't even have a
restroom for them. Uh so we we we knew
right from the beginning that we had to
accommodate the women back in the day.
