Can I show you five crazy AI businesses
that no one is talking about even though they are making their owners rich?
Seriously, people are so obsessed right now with the trendiest AI tools like
Claude Code that these opportunities are just being completely ignored. Like take
AI music channels. I think this is an insanely underrated opportunity right
now for two reasons. The first reason is that these are super trendy and going
massively viral. These are faceless YouTube channels that pick a niche or
genre of music, then create background videos that contain a collection of
songs they make with AI. And it's crazy how popular these are. Like seriously,
I've been tracking this AI music channel now since late last year, and every
month it's pulling in millions of views. And it's just 9 months old. And
according to ViewStats, it's already had over 58 million long-form views, with
over 24 million of them within the past 90 days alone. And check out the
estimated ad revenue for it. Wow. And if you do the math, that comes out to a
really nice daily or combined monthly payout check. Like, no joke, it's
seriously blowing my mind how much money these channels are making. But there's a
second reason I think that this is such an underrated opportunity. It's because
every day I see new creators in it growing fast. Take this channel. It's
just 2 months old and yet it's already getting 50 to 70,000 views per day. And
yes, before anyone asks, this channel is monetized and I can prove it. So, check
this out. If we come to the video options, you'll see that there is a
thanks button that we can click to donate to the creator. Well, this is an
optional feature only available to monetize channels in YouTube's Partner
Program. To turn it on, you must be monetized. And this will surprise some
people, since there is a common myth that YouTube is demonetizing all AI
videos. But it isn't true. YouTube has clarified that all videos that abide by
the monetization rules, including AI videos, can be monetized. So, does she
finish like AI music is eligible for monetization? You can open up a bunch of
channels in it to find out if they have this feature turned on. Not all creators
like to ask viewers for money, so a lot of channels don't turn it on, but
usually if a niche like this is eligible for monetization, you'll still find some
that choose to do so. And so then, let's now go ahead and make our own AI music
video utilizing the simple AI workflow here. And first up in our workflow is
Suno, the most popular AI music creator. You just sign in and then tell it what
sort of song you want it to make. So, for me, I wanted it to create a tropical
relaxing chill out song that you might expect to hear if you were at a tropical
resort. And it will create two songs for you. And out of these two songs, this
one was my favorite. Here's a quick snippet. >> [music] [music] [music]
>> Pretty cool, right? And I chose this niche because in my personal opinion,
one of the easiest ways to have success on YouTube as a new channel is to see
what is working for other new creators and to then hop onto those trends
yourself fast. And I couldn't help but notice while browsing on YouTube that
tropical chill out music was doing well for several new channels like this one
here and for this one here, which is just 1 month old. And as you can see, it
has this cool animated background, which I think is probably a big part of why
it's been so popular for them. And so next up in our workflow, we'll be making
our own animated scene of a tropical house like this. And to do that, we'll
need to first generate the starting image scene. And honestly, most AI image
generators these days can do this perfectly fine, but for me, my favorite
AI image generator right now is Google's Nena Banana, and my favorite tool for
accessing it currently is Google Flow, which is Google's dedicated media
generator app, which you can access for free inside of Google Labs tools. So,
using this, I generated a starting frame image of a photorealistic tropical beach
house, which I then downloaded. And next up, I needed to animate it. And right
now, the most affordable frame-to-frame video animator is, in my personal
opinion, their latest Kling video model, especially if you access it through the
all-in-one AI video production tool Hexfield, which has the cheapest Kling
credits on the market. So, I'll be using Hexfield for this tutorial. And so, what
I did was simple. Inside of Hexfield, I just opened up the latest Kling video
model, and I then uploaded our picture of the starting frame, and then,
crucially, I uploaded it as the final video frame, and then I prompted it and
generated my video. And I set it to be a 15-second animation, and I also saved
credits by switching it to be in 720p. Since, as you'll see later, I will be
upscaling it with AI tools. And so, check it out, it has now turned our
image into an animation, and importantly, the first and final frames
are exactly the same, which means that it forms a perfect loop. So, in theory,
you can just copy and paste this animation throughout your entire video
to have it be a seamless animation. Or, alternatively, you can also do what I
did, which was to mix it up. I went ahead and clicked the rerun prompt
button to create two new clips using this exact same prompt, but this image
is the start and end frame for each of them. Creating more than one clip is
optional, but by generating multiple clips, it lets you mix and match them
throughout your video to keep the visuals changing and interesting. And
because they all form perfect loops, you can randomly swap them around in any
order that you like. But yes, either way, once you have your clips and songs,
we just need to put it all together. And to do that, I use the AI-powered video
editor CapCut, which has a fully featured 30-day trial if you want to
access it for free. And making the video was super simple. I just put all of my
songs I generated with Suno onto the timeline. The cheapest $10 Suno plan,
which I have, lets you generate 500 songs a month, so getting enough songs
to create a 1-hour playlist was easy. Then next I added in my clips. And when
I first added in each clip, I came to the video settings for it and clicked to
enhance the clip visually, which is basically CapCut's own built-in AI
upscaler. And then I just copied and pasted these animated clips randomly
throughout the video to vary up the visuals and the order. And then that was
it. I created my own tropical chillout AI music video complete with its own
animated background. Nice. Oh, and by the way, unfortunately for this video, I
don't have time to go super in-depth into technical details like how to edit
these videos together. [music] But if there are any business ideas that
I showcase in this video that you would like a full step-by-step tutorial for,
please just let me know in the comments, because if there is enough demand, then
I can go ahead and create a full step-by-step tutorial which includes all
of those boring details. But yes, let's now move on to the next underrated AI
business opportunity right now, which is this: can coolers. Seriously, it's kind
of crazy. If you come to Etsy, you'll see that a super popular trending
product right now is can coolers, especially personalized can coolers. For
example, you take this one here. As you can see, 66 people have bought this can
cooler today in the past 24 hours. Now, you think about it, right? This is
the sort of thing that you buy for events, like parties or weddings or
group vacations. So, the people buying this can cooler, chances are they didn't
just buy one. Nope, they might have bought 10 of them or 100 of them or even
50 of them. And even though each can cooler itself is selling for just $6,
the profit margins on each of them are actually really good. And I know this
because this is actually an item you can sell print-on-demand from Printify,
which is the biggest print-on-demand app in the world. And it has a direct
integration with Etsy. Printify has a huge list of blank products that you can
customize and sell on demand, including, as I said, can coolers. And right now
with my Printify Premium account, I can buy each can cooler for just $3.28.
Using an Etsy profit calculator, I worked out that the profit margin after
shipping and fees came to about 25 to 30% for these, which is pretty cool. So,
let me show you how I used AI to make this can cooler. So, first up, I needed
to generate my image for it. As I said earlier, my favorite AI image generation
right now is Google's Nano Banana. And my favorite way to access that right now
is through Google's all-in-one media generator Flow. So, I came to Flow and
made a new project with the agent mode turned off, and I set to make four
different square images using the Nano Banana Pro model, and I prompted it
telling it to create for me a black and white motif of a camping trip. And out
of the images that it made for me, this one was my favorite. So, I downloaded
it. Then next, I came to my favorite AI-powered graphics editing app Canva,
which, by the way, if you didn't know, has a free 14-day Pro trial, which gets
you unlimited access to the AI tools. So, I will include my affiliate link to
this in the description below, and I just opened it up and created a new
large square project, and I uploaded the image that Nano Banana made for me, and
I then clicked the image edit options and selected Canva's AI upscaler to
upscale it into even higher resolution. And then I used the AI background
remover to make the background transparent, and I then clicked share,
download, and saved it as a PNG with the background set to stay transparent. Then
I came back to Printify, and I selected to make my own can cooler to sell, and I
chose a fun background color for it, and then I went and uploaded the image that
I had created, and I placed it on the front of the cooler. And then on the
text options, I selected one of Printify's pre-made text layers, and I
put the curve layer on top of the picture with the bottom layer below it.
Then I went in and edited each line of text to be updated with my design. And
then, well, that was pretty much it. My camping-themed can cooler was ready to
list and sell. And turning on personalizations for the lines of text
is actually pretty easy because Printify has a feature you can turn on when
uploading it to Etsy that will add a personalization box for each layer of
text. Customers can then enter in whatever they want to personalize it
with, and Printify's personalization feature will personalize it
automatically for them. So, then, on to the next business idea. But first, we
just have a quick word from today's video sponsor, me. Yes, as my
subscribers know, due to so many shady sponsors, I'm picky with who I let
sponsor my videos, and if I fail to find a sponsor I trust, then I just choose to
sponsor it myself. So, I'm sponsoring my video today to let you know that if
you're unaware, I actually have my own successful AI print-on-demand business.
Basically, I combine AI tools like Claude, Name Banana, and Canva together
to create cool clothing designs which I sell on Etsy for a profit. And if you'd
like to learn more about how I do this, I have a free ebook which shares my six
steps that I use to find high-demand, low-competition niches, and how I use AI
tools to design clothing designs for them, and then how I also use AI tools
like Claude to optimize them to get free search engine traffic. So, if you would
like to download a copy of my free ebook, I will include a link to it in
the video description below. Plus, I also have a program called the Ecom Club
Pass where I share in-depth tutorial videos along with my exact AI prompts
and workflows that I am using in my business. And as a bonus, if anyone
signs up for my free ebook today, as a special thank you, I will give all new
readers an optional one-time coupon that lets you join the Ecom Club Pass for 7
days for just $1. That's it. Sponsorship over, now back to the video. And onto
the next underrated AI opportunity, journal supplies. Yes, printable
journaling supplies have become one of the most popular digital products on
Etsy because journaling itself as a hobby is currently super trendy. So much
so that in their latest trend report, Etsy actually noted themselves that it
is one of the fastest-growing product niches on the marketplace. And trust me
when I say I have seen so many new accounts pop up in the past year having
a lots of success on Etsy by just focusing on creating printable
journaling products. For example, this store was started just 3 months ago, and
it's already had over 1,700 sales. And this store, it was started just 6 months
ago, and it's already had over 3,500 sales. And this store here, it was
started just 11 months ago, and it's already had over 53,000 sales. Wow. And
you might have noticed something. These stores are specializing in creating
digital products around a particular type of journaling, junk journals. Junk
journaling is about combining lots of pages and materials together that have a
vintage recycled aesthetic. And right now in particular, vintage-style pages
and printable materials that have a sort of whimsical vibe like these here are
super popular, which as I'll show you are pretty simple to create using an
advanced AI image generator. So of course, I will be again using my current
favorite generator, Nina Banana Pro, which I will be accessing through
Google's free all-in-one media app Flow. So I just logged in and created a new
project and with the agent mode turned off, I selected what size image I wanted
with four variations and I chose the latest pro model. Then I came to
Nightcafe's explore library. This contains a public directory of all of
the latest highest upvoted pieces generated by users. It is free to access
this library of images. You don't need a paid account. So, what I did was I
scrolled through and I found an image that is in the style and aesthetic that
I wanted and I took a screenshot of it. And I uploaded screenshot into Google
Flow and asked it to use the same aesthetic and style to create an image
in a new theme for me. And as you can see, it was able to create this for me,
no problem. And speaking of Etsy, this actually brings me on to the next
underrated opportunity, which is starting an AI research agency. So, here
is an example of a successful research agency on Fiverr. They offer services
where they will do SEO and competitor research on Etsy for up to 15 product
listings. And look, they have five orders in the queue. And here is another
research agency offering a very similar service. And as you can see, it's also
popular with five orders in the queue, too. And if you don't know what SEO is,
it's search engine optimization. Search engine optimization is when you tweak
things like your product title or tags to rank higher in the Etsy search
results for specific keywords to make it easier for people to find your products.
For example, if you check out this top-rated listing here for personalized
anklets, you can see that in the title, it has related keywords. And all of the
AI LLMs, such as Claude or Google's AI Gemini or ChatGPT, can research things
like this for you. All you need to do is turn on the research mode and tell it
what you want to research. And that's it. It'll do it for you. It's good to
experiment with multiple different AIs to find the one that you like the best.
Right now, I personally find that ChatGPT is my favorite for research like
this because it creates simple to read yet detailed reports and it has much
bigger usage limits than what Claude gives you. But either way, once the AI
you chose prepared its detailed research report for you, you can then ask your AI
to actually turn it into a minimalist report that is simple and easy for a
client to read and you can then copy and paste this into a Google Doc making any
tweaks that you like and then send it over to your client. Plus, as a bonus,
you can even create a PowerPoint presentation. Inside a PowerPoint,
Microsoft has their own AI called Copilot. You can select this and upload
the document that your research AI prepared for you and get Copilot to turn
it into a cool-looking PowerPoint presentation that you can send to the
client, too. So, yeah, whatever you choose to research, whether it's SEO
research, product research, whatever it is, you can use an AI to not just
complete the research report, but to turn it into deliverable reports and
presentations, too. Although, speaking of SEO, this brings me on to my next
underrated AI opportunity right now, local micro lead sites. So, let me show
you something. If we do a search on Google for pool service in Anaheim,
California, this website is sitting at the top of the search results. It is a
simple, basic website designed to get people to enter in their contact
information to get contacted back for help with their pools and the way that
they get traffic isn't from paid advertising. It's literally from getting
free traffic from Google search engine results. And the reason for this is
because, again, they have optimized the site for keywords like this by doing
something called SEO, otherwise known as search engine optimization, which is
when you tweak things like your site title, URL, description and copy to add
keywords that match or are related to search phrases you want to rank for
within Google. And as you can see, that is is
what the site has done. And here's something else that's important. This
micro lead site here isn't actually owned by a pool service company. If you
look closely at the website copy, they literally explain that actually what
they do is they take your information and then they connect you with a company
to help you with whatever service you need for your pool. Basically, the
creator is collecting contact details of potential customers and in selling them
to local pool companies. And a common price is to sell each lead for about
I'll tell you something. I actually had my own local lead sites
here in New Zealand which I sold off some years ago. So I know through
personal experience that this can work in many countries around the world, not
just America. But yes, either way, let me show you how we can make our own lead
generation site using AI. And the first thing that we're going to do is we're
going to use AI to help us do keyword research to identify local competition
search engine keywords. And pretty much all of the major AI LLMs can do this job
just fine including Gemini, ChatGPT and Claude. So just pick one that you like.
Then ask it to find cities or metro areas in whatever country you're
building a micro lead site in that has a moderate population size. Like say for
example 100,000 to 300,000 people. And the reason why we'll do this is because
as you can imagine, the biggest cities that everyone recognizes like Los
Angeles and Chicago, those all have a lots of people trying to build sites in
them. So if you try to build one in those high competition niches too, it'll
be tough to stand out in the crowd. Instead, it's much easier to build a
site around a service that no one else has yet. And so as you can imagine, it's
the smaller cities that most people don't know about that get ignored. For
example, you take the city of Chandler. I bet most people watching this have
never heard of the city before, yet over 275,000
people live there that will all need a bunch of services. Then next up, we will
need to come to a keyword difficulty checker.
>> [music] >> My personal favorite one is the SEMrush
Keyword Magic Tool, and to use this you do need a pro account, which isn't free.
So, I did ask if they could give viewers of this channel a promo, and they
offered viewers a 14-day free trial. So, if you want to use it 14 days for free,
I'll link to this affiliate link in the description. But, either way, here's how
I use it. I just come and enter in the keyword that I'm interested in targeting
and read over the difficulty report it gives me. And look, if we search for
Chandler landscaping service-related keywords, not only are they combined
getting over 1,000 searches a month, but it estimates that several of them have
little to no competition, which means then that even websites that are brand
new that are built to target these keywords have a high chance of ranking
for them in Google for free traffic. So, then, now that I had my keywords to
target, I needed to go in and actually build my microsite. And if you have
development skills, you could use a coding AI like Flow Code and combine it
with an image generator like Nina Banana to manually make your own site. Or,
alternatively, if like me, you don't have those skills, then I find it easier
to just use an all-in-one vibe coding tool that combines them together for me
like Base 44. And this is what I personally use to build sites. So,
again, I'll include an affiliate link to it in the description below if you want
to check it out for yourself and try it using the free account. But, basically,
I just came to it and asked it to make for me a targeted lead generation
website specifically for landscaping services in Chandler, similar to the
pool website. I went through the planning process with it confirming what
it would actually build for me, and then it went to work both coding together my
website and generating the design and images for it. And check it out. It
created my micro site for me, no problem. So, now that I had my site, I
needed to add my SEO tweaks to optimize it for my low competition keywords. And
here's how I did that. First, I clicked publish my website and make it publicly
available on a temporary URL. Then, I came back to an AI LLM to run an SEO
audit. Again, you can use Gemini, ChatGPT, Claude, whichever you prefer.
All of them can do this just fine. So, just pick whichever one you like using
the most, and I gave it the URL to my website. Then, I asked it to do a full
SEO audit and to provide me with the exact website copy changes that it
recommended and the exact SEO tweaks I should do to optimize my site for my
related keywords so that Google would rank my website for free traffic. Then,
once it had finished analyzing my website and preparing my report, I
downloaded a copy of it. And then, I came back to Base44 and I just tweaked
my website to match with the SEO recommendations
by just asking Base44 to make each of the recommended changes, which was a
simple process. And then, after I'd gone and Base44 to make all of these SEO
tweaks to my website and copy to optimize it to rank highly in Google
search results for keywords related to landscaping services in Chandler, I just
needed to make it public and send it live. And since I'm on the builder plan,
which includes web hosting for all of my micro sites, that meant that all I had
to do was go and then purchase an SEO optimized domain name like this one
using exact keywords related to the search phrases I'm targeting, which
right now costs just about a dollar. So, I did that and within minutes, my domain
name was live, connected, and ready to start collecting leads to sell. Yay! And
don't forget, if there is a business idea on this list that you would like a
full tutorial video on, please just let me know in the comments. And if you'd
like to learn about even more ways that people are using AI to start one-person
businesses online, be sure to check out my next video here on screen and I will
see you in the next one.