If you're waiting for the move to be
obvious, you're 100% late. You aren't
the hunter, you're the exit liquidity.
The easy money has already been made.
Anyone can tell you a stock is strong
[music] when it's up 100%. But there's a
way to tell a stock is strong before it
makes its move. We call it hidden
relative strength. This is the quiet
accumulation that happens [music] while
the rest of the market is looking the
other way. It's not sexy. It won't make
your ex feed, but it [music] works.
We're going to discuss how we spot
hidden relative strength, how we measure
it, and how we [music] use it to
anticipate breakouts. It's time to
become an expert on spotting hidden
[music]
 relative strength. Welcome to
the Trading Floor podcast, episode 9.
I'm Tim Beldin, joined as always with
Garrett Dryen and our guy Kurt behind
the curtain.
So Garrett, when we're saying hidden
relative strength, what do we mean?
So when a lot of people talk about
strength, they're talking about a really
strong stock. And relative strength
obviously is comparing one stock to
another or one stock to the market,
right? Everyone knows that. But I think
that a lot of times when we talk about
relative strength, the thing that stands
out to us is the strength part, right?
So something that has tremendous
relative strength is like some stock
that's just running. It's the strongest
stock in the market. It's super obvious.
But there are other kinds of relative
strength that are more subtle, but like
in our case, and you'd probably agree
with this, Tim, like more powerful
because there's a way to use it to our
advantage. Now, a stock that's up, you
know, 10% today, obviously, it's
probably going to have some pretty
serious relative strength, but it's like
the cat's out of the bag, right? So,
yeah. So, so what is this this hidden
relative strength that we're talking
about that is a little more subtle? You
you can measure it. You can easily
measure it, but it's different than just
something that's just ridiculously
strong.
>> And what you're getting at, it's
actionable. Like it's something where
you find hidden relative strength and
that could lead to trades and you don't
want to be looking at it every single
day. So, like you said, relative
strength, we compare the strength of a
stock to the indices to the market. And
for hidden relative strength, we really
want to be looking at it when the market
is having down days. When the market is
weak, what's standing out and holding up
the best? And that's what gets us
excited.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, it's it's a stock
that isn't going down when the market's
going down. So, if we're going to
compare it to the overall market,
because that's a really great proxy to
say, you know, is our stock stronger or
weaker than the market, we can compare
it to SPY or Q's or maybe it's it's ETF,
it's sector ETF, you know, there's
different things we can do there. Um,
but we might it might be as simple as
we're watching our stock, right? And and
we we use this for breakouts, right?
Mostly, Tim, like we're we're teeing up
a breakout. We're trying to take the
temperature of the stock. We want to get
the feel for is it ready, right? It's
trading in the range. It's maybe testing
the breakout level. Maybe it's it's
getting close. It's getting tight. Like
there's various reasons why we're
watching it a lot closer now. And we
we're really trying to like time this
thing. And and like the last episode
when we talked about the pink line,
there are certain things we do below
that breakout level where we might
anticipate that breakout level or we
might wait for that break, right? And
one of those things that might get us to
anticipate is relative strength.
>> Would you like to gain the biggest edge
a retail trader can get? All of our
daily and weekly in-house trader
meetings are now available to you. Just
head over to smbtradingfloor.com
to find out more.
>> And it's really that hidden relative
strength. So it might be as simple. So
to me, a lot of the times it's just
watching the market. Like there's ways
to measure this and we'll like I want to
actually get into that Tim because I
brought a couple slides of of a of an
indicator that I created that I like to
to use to measure this especially on the
quant side. Um
>> let's go.
>> But
so but it's usually as simple as like
I'm I'm just watching the stock
>> and you notice that the market ticks
down, right? you're watching the spy at
the same time as your stock and maybe
there's a downdraft in the market and
you're watching your stock and maybe it
doesn't go down as hard, right? Maybe
there's some bids there, maybe it holds,
maybe it doesn't go down at all. And
that's just a little instance within
that day that it demonstrated some
relative strength, some resilience,
something that like something's there,
there's a bid there, there's something
there that that shows some buying,
right? without it kind of having to go
up 10% before you realize that. Right?
So, you're collecting these little data
points as the market drops and your your
stock holds. The market drops, your
stock holds, right? Maybe the market
rallies a little and yours goes more.
Maybe the market starts to consolidate
and the stock, you know, keeps going a
little bit higher. There are these
little moments that are qualitative that
we can see when we're watching the tape.
So simply put, it's like the Q's are
down 2% on the day. What is green?
What's positive on the day? Or if the
market's down 2 to 3%, what's only down
like 0.25%.
And I think what's interesting, you're
saying the underlying bid. What I find
so interesting with hidden relative
strength is that there is a fundamental
driver behind it where the strongest
stocks usually they make the biggest
most explosive moves because they have
institutional buying behind it. And we
know these are huge funds, huge firms
where they can't execute everything in a
day. Like if they want to buy Tesla or
SNDK, you can't do it in one single day.
So on those down market days, you're
getting that big money still adding to
their positions via a TWAP. And that's
kind of uh the dynamic that is that
underlying bid that we're talking about,
>> right? It's it's like the footprints of
those those institutions and it's the
really the market showing you its hand,
>> right? The market having those down
moves gives you an opportunity to see
which stocks have bids in them. And
that's why like our team leader K Fitz
like he's he's a great swing trader.
He's always talking about like every
time we get a weak day in the market or
even just like a weak period in the
market that's like that's his time to
start collecting his list of strong
stocks, right? It's not after they've
all gone up 10%. It's when the market's
going down and he's just looking and
just adding stocks, adding stocks like
this stock, this stock, and and by by
the time the pullback is over in the
market, he has this list of relatively
strong stocks. And it's typically once
that market turns, those are the stocks
that are going to explode. And that's
those are the stocks that he ends up
swinging trading like on the way back
up, which is I mean that's like his
whole strategy.
>> Yeah. And he's he's made a lot of money
doing it,
>> which we do. We do that as well.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> So, the blueprint you're saying is when
the market is down, he'll send the text
in. We already know to do it. But when
the market is down, look at what's
holding up the best. Like, simply put,
that's the best way to start going about
finding hidden relative strength in
stocks.
>> Yeah. So, I like to me there's like two
ways to use this. Like one, you're
scanning for stocks. So you're trying to
create a list of stocks that are showing
relative strength, right? That's kind of
like you can keep your like relative
strength list and now you know these are
stocks when the market gets strong might
outperform, right? They might set up and
these are the stocks you want to be
watching. So that's kind of like a a
scanning way to go about this. The the
other way is like you've got a stock
that's setting up and this is kind of
>> you're already watching it.
>> Yeah. And this is kind of like where I
was um thinking like going into this.
Like we didn't talk a lot about this
this uh this episode, but that's kind of
where my head was at because you're
right, you can use it to scan the
stocks. Where my head was at was you're
watching a stock for a breakout and
you're trying to figure out when it's
ready, right? Because we're always like,
you know, there can be failed breakouts.
It can be too early. you don't want to
anticipate if it's not going to go and
you know you want to wait for the pink
line you know regarding last episode and
all those things and so you're trying to
time it and there's something about
when you're watching for a breakout that
like in the beginning of the
consolidation a lot of the times the
stock's underperforming like it might
you know it's pulling back it's resting
after a big move um there's some
volatility there and then it's and it
starts to go sideways and at some point
it starts showing some relative strength
before it breaks out. And I would say
that like I mean 90% of the time when I
go back and like look at my indicator
and just kind of review like a lot of
times we're computing this like
qualitatively as we look at the market.
But if you go back and and look at this,
I mean 90% of the breakouts that are
really good that we trade like they
start to show that relative strength
before the breakout in these really
subtle ways. And so that's like one of
my favorite ways to start teeing up a
breakout is because you start to see
that. And I I remember distinctly
um I think it was like the Tesla 360
breakout last year. It consolidated for
weeks um off that April low. It came off
and then and then consolidated higher
and then broke out like I think it was
through 360. And it was like the few
days leading up to the breakout it was
just obvious relative strength. And I
actually brought a slide.
>> So,
>> let's look at it.
>> Yeah, Kurt, if you could please bring up
the uh the Tesla slide. I think it's
number number two.
>> And Tesla's our favorite in terms of
like I don't remember a Tesla breakout
that didn't show relative strength right
before it broke out. Like that's a
signature for Tesla breakouts.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and so this is so Tesla
is on the left and the Q's are on the
right. So that I'm just comparing Tesla
to the Q's. And that line on the bottom
of the Tesla chart is the relative
strength line. Now Tim, you know,
sometimes I like to do things
differently. A lot of times, like most
most of the times when people want to
quantify relative strength, I think like
the traditional way to do it is like a a
ratio chart where you're kind of like
dividing
um like one stock by the other and and
you're you're plotting that line, right?
and the the movement of that line shows
the relationship between those those two
stocks. And that works great when you're
comparing two very similar um types of
equities with similar volatility and
stuff like that. And I I think as in a
broad stroke kind of way like that's
that's a great way to do it. Um for me
like the issue with that is that it
doesn't really normalize for volatility.
So what if you have a stock that moves a
lot more and you're trying to compare it
to something that doesn't move nearly as
much. So like for instance, if Tesla
moves a lot more than the market, so te
the market's up 2%, Tesla's up 4%.
Market's down 1%, Tesla's down 2%.
Right? It's just Tesla's doing the same
thing as the market. It's just more
volatile, right? In a situation like
that, a lot of these traditional
relative strength lines are going to end
up just looking like the chart of Tesla,
like a like a sort of subdued chart of
Tesla because Tesla's going to dominate
because it has more volatility than the
um than the instrument that you're
comparing it to. So, what I like to do
is normalize for volatility. And this
this is an indicator that that we share
in in the Bionic Trader meetings.
>> Do you want to sit in on all of our
daily and weekly in-house trader
meetings? There's no bigger edge retail
traders can get. Visit
smbtradingfloor.com
to learn more.
>> Just really quickly, Tim, explain like
how we compute it so that like people at
home can do it and understand it. Um,
>> yeah.
>> And definitely, you know, basically
you're like I'm taking each bar
>> which think of each bar as a move in the
stock, right? You're going from like the
previous close to the close. And this
could be on any time frame. It's just
the calculation on whatever time frame
you're on. Every bar is a move in the
stock. And so for every move in the
stock, you're taking that move and
you're dividing it by the ATR, which is
the average true range. So there's a
rolling calculation of an average true
range, which is the volatility of the
stock. And you're taking that move and
you're dividing it by the ATR. And then
you take the next move and you're
dividing it by the ATR. And so now you
have a chart of these ATR moves and
you're accumulating those. And so as the
volatility is changing, the uh the moves
are adjusting to that volatility and
you're basically getting an ATR adjusted
cumulative return of the stock, right?
And so you do that for Tesla and then
you do that for the Q's. You take Tesla
minus the Q's. So you just subtract the
benchmark from your stock. And
>> so just to stop you real quick, you're
normalizing using the average true
range.
>> Exactly. That's that's the big
difference. So like you're you're taking
two separate lines and then you're
subtracting one for the other. Each line
is a normalized like ATR return of the
stock.
>> Yes.
>> During the same time period and so that
way um you're basically saying like for
Tesla's volatility
Tesla has performed this way and for the
Q's volatility the Q's have performed
this way. So we've now taken the
volatility out of it now based on how
they normally move, which one's
outperforming,
>> right? And so
>> yeah, it's so interesting.
>> And so like if if say Tesla typically
always just does double the percent move
as as the Q's.
>> I'm just making that up.
>> So now if the Q's go up 2% and Tesla
goes up 4%.
That on the relative strength line,
that's going to be like they did the
same thing.
>> And that's that's what that's doing. And
then so you're saying doing the same
thing. It'll be a flat like Yeah. It'll
just be flat.
>> Yeah. Like they both they both did the
same thing. So that's what the line is
down at the bottom. And so that's
plotting the relative strength of Tesla
compared to the Q's. And you can you can
see it pretty clearly because you see
that day one, this is over the course of
three days. And you can see those
vertical lines on the chart are
splitting Tesla and the cues up into
three days. And you can see on day one
how Tesla rallied in the morning,
flatlined in the afternoon, and then
kind of sold off into the close. Kind of
closed where it started. And you can see
that the Q's actually kind of sold off
all afternoon
>> and and much deeper
>> and and rallied into the close a little
bit, right? Which is so when when the
Q's rally into the close, you can see
that relative strength line in Tesla dip
because now all of a sudden just into
the close, the Q's are outperforming.
So, but you can see as a whole Tesla
held up much better than the Q's and you
can see that in the chart and you can
see it on the relative strength line.
And so, what's so interesting about this
is that we weren't looking at this line
when we were making this trade. We were
just watching the tape and comparing
like I started out saying, just noticing
the moves in the market compared to
Tesla. And on day two, Tesla was just
noticeably stronger than the market. And
this is the day that it came up to and
tested the breakout level, which is that
pink line. So strong off the open and
they were both kind of strong but Tesla
was stronger and especially in that
afternoon move where Tesla had some
follow through the market didn't even
move and that relative strength lines
making new highs and so that's just like
to show how this line works. Um, but
when we're trading this, we're thinking,
man, like Tesla's over the course of the
last two days has shown so much
consistent relative strength that this
really could be ready to break out.
>> It's cool seeing the relative relativity
line because we've used this in our
models in the past. Uh, but it's cool
seeing it. Just to mention too, if you
don't have the relativity line, like one
way of also just qualitatively looking
at it is Tesla's able to take out its
morning high um in the afternoon when
Q's never did. That's another small
little tidbit you can use.
>> Yeah,
>> like you were just saying.
>> Absolutely. Right. And those are those
those are those qualitative things that
we're mostly using. Like we're not
really looking at this line too often.
So,
>> and you could even look at just ATRs up
as well as other ways to measure hidden
relative strength,
>> right? Like ATRs up on the day.
>> Yeah.
>> Yep. Yeah. Absolutely.
>> So, what's so interesting though with
this? So, I I I'm seeing it on the
chart. It's pretty cool to see. And then
I'm seeing that at the end of day two,
day two is where all the magic happens
here. That relativity line starts to
really jump. And if you're like a
technical trader just trading the
relativity, it breaks out then.
>> Yeah, it starts to break out and then
some of that's I think the continuation
into the the actual.
>> Oh, okay. I see where it
>> it's like half and half. Yeah,
>> it's hard to see where
>> it gets a perk at the end.
>> It's hard to see where it cuts off, but
yes, it does.
it makes new highs into into the close
because the Q's had a pretty
>> I think a you know pretty big down move
especially um I can't see I can't see if
that's at the close or at the open but
but yeah basically you want to just see
your stock outperforming right and and I
want to show a example of SNDK which is
that recent breakout on a daily chart
because that's really where it's
interesting to look at like this was
kind of fun to see because the reason I
grabbed this example Tim was because I
just remember trading this and I
remember talking about the relative
strength in Tesla and how that was
getting us to get involved in the trade
anticipating this breakout. Um just just
noticing it like we weren't looking at
the at the indicator but I wanted to
kind of pull kind of go back and look at
the indicator and and review this
because do you remember talking about
this?
>> Oh I remember with the Tesla one. Are
you talking Tesla still?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It was literally that on that day
two we got involved on that day two
because of the relative strength and
this just to now bring everything back
to the pink line. Last episode we were
talking about what are some times when
we'll break that rule and it's perfectly
validated. That was one of them and we
broke that rule.
>> Right. All right. So Tim SNDK this this
was the breakout that occurred earlier
this month. This was after after a big
run. um one of the strongest stocks in
the market, but it paused and it it took
a break. So did the market. So on the
left we've got SNDK with the relative
strength line. On the right we've got
the cues. This this shows like three
months of price action. And to me this
was a perfect example of that hidden
relative strength that we're talking
about because
>> expand on that.
>> This relative strength line broke out
when SNDK was doing nothing. It was just
pulling back and consolidating in the
entire
>> so much clear.
>> Yeah. And and and this is on a daily
chart. But just to paint the picture
like big run takes a pause, pulls back,
has a pretty big down day, experiences a
little pocket of relative weakness as it
comes off the highs. And they often do
that, right? Um they'll often first show
relative weakness as they consolidate
and then they start to hold and then
they start to show relative strength and
you can see that that relative strength
line starts to turn up. halfway through
that consolidation
and it starts to get a little bit
tighter
and then that relative strength line
breaks out during and I put a little box
around the red day little little kind of
dogee type red day before that that sort
of breakout candle there
>> where the relative strength line breaks
out and that's because if you look over
on the right I put a rectangle around
the candle in the Q's that occurred on
and the Q's had a big down today.
>> So, we had a big down day that closed at
the lows in the market and SNDK barely
budged. And so, that's like that's the
perfect example to me of like that
hidden relative strength where you're
like, "Wait a second.
>> SNDK is just holding the 10day here
getting tighter and tighter and it
couldn't go down with the market. The
market had a huge sell day. Something's
going on, right? like there's a there's
a hidden bid in here and so we might be
getting a lot closer to the breakout and
then of course like we got a big day the
next day and then a nice consolidation
Tesla levels Tesla level and breaks out.
>> That's so interesting. So we gave two
good example like the Tesla was a stock
that was strong stronger than the market
on an upday and this is really like
you're saying the hidden relative
strength where it's not green on the
day. It's just holding up a lot better.
But yeah, when I was even saying the
Tesla relativity line broke out, this is
such a good breakout in relativity on
that bottom left chart. Like that's so
good. And like the thing with this is
like first of all you're you're looking
at this for other reasons. Like you're
looking at this breakout because it's
overall one of the strongest stocks in
the market. It's got a great story and
it's in a great sector and there's a
theme surrounding it and it's
consolidating and getting tight and
going sideways and holding the 10day.
Like you might have all of these
reasons, but this is this is what I mean
about like you've got a stock that
you're watching and you're just trying
to time it and gain clues to how close
we are to the breakout. And you might
use some of this hidden relative
strength to just give you clues as to
how close we're getting, right? Right.
And not to even forget also like insane
the run it had in 2025 and for it to
consolidate that um in that upper
percentile of the range is crazy.
>> Yeah.
>> Talk about a high tight flag like
playbook that mark it up. That's
beautiful,
>> right? Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. And
so it's it's a nice it's a nice little
example of like, hey, you know, it's
it's not the kind of moment that you're
going to get if you're screening for
like the strongest stocks on the day.
I'm sure there were stronger stocks than
SNDK on this day,
>> right? But oh yeah, like it wasn't even
green. I think it was like a little red
candle, but it was way stronger than the
market. So if you're watching SNDK and
very interested in this breakout then it
can be really good information for you.
And so I think that like you know one
thing you can do is like we like what's
your favorite way to look at this Tim?
Let me ask you because I know like we're
not really looking at this relative
strength line when we're trading like
we've used this on the quant side. We've
kind of developed it for other reasons
for scanners and different things like
that. But um when we're when you're
watching the market like what are how
are you thinking about relative
strength?
>> Yeah, we mentioned it in general in the
beginning like as just a scanner but I
find it the most powerful when you are
looking for a trade. So again stock
selection is very important. where like
we're watching SNDK for all those
reasons and it's below the breakout
level and you're looking just to see if
there's any hints that this thing is
getting bought and institutions are
buying because at the end of the day
like what I try to lean back on is that
we are trying to follow big money like
that's how you catch explosive moves and
for me yeah that's exactly what it is.
It's interesting too, like there were
other reasons for this SNDK to be
watching. Like I remember it was so hard
to find the article, but this was when
there's that Samsung raising their
prices overnight catalyst. Um it
happened right after um this down day
and that was that small gap up into the
next day. So for me, it wouldn't have
been that you have to get involved.
Actually, I want to make this point too.
You don't have to get involved right
when you find hidden relative strength
stock
>> point because I'm not necessarily buying
that day at all.
>> Exactly right. Because you want to wait
until usually the market turns up or
just like there is a breakout where like
it hidden relative strength could last
longer than just one day and it doesn't
mean that this has to go but it means if
the market does reclaim and start
trending higher this thing's going to
rip.
>> Exactly. So, it's like an alert. And
that I'm so glad you brought that up
because I didn't even mention that.
Like, it's not like I'm buying it on
that little red day just because I saw
hidden relative strength. But when I get
that alert, however, I'm getting it now,
it's just going to the top of my watch
list the next day. And that's like
really valuable because now we're
watching it even closer because we're
thinking like maybe it's it's just
getting closer to the breakout. And so I
think sometimes those things are like
undervalued because like we're always
talking about entries and like how you
like how you get in and like what's a
good trade and all that kind of stuff,
but like how's it get to the top of your
watch list in the first place is a
really important factor in trading.
>> I like that you're saying watch list.
That's actually like I kind of wish I
even put said that for my answer, but
that's really what this is like. It's
just a way of ranking your watch list
and in turn that's how you catch these
huge breakout trades.
>> Right. Absolutely. Right. You you start
watching like earlier on in this move it
might be like fifth on the watch list
like yeah I think it's going to break
out at some point.
>> Yeah. It starts to get tighter and
you're like you know what like this is
my secondary thing. I don't want to lose
track. And then as soon as you see that
hidden relative strength and then
something happens the next day boom all
of a sudden it's like wait a second like
this is the top the top thing. So it's
just it's one of those pieces to the
puzzle.
>> And similarly after it breaks above let
me see what price that was like 280
after it has that next um it it broke
out from like a 30 minute consolidation
um when it went to 280 had that pause
and then it had the pink line breakout.
It's funny because then at that point
you're in the trade, but at the same
point in terms of your actionable watch
list, now SNDK starts moving down
because it is already made its move.
Like you're late to that move if you're
looking to play this,
>> right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you want to
get the tip off early. You want to be
prepared for these damn things because
they happen fast. So that's kind of the
point. It's like how many how many ways
can we get to like be hawking the right
breakouts because there's probably other
stocks maybe looking like they could
break out too. We want to we want to
make sure we're watching the right ones.
So this is kind of like one of the ways
to do it, right? And bandwidth is a like
it's one of the harder aspects where you
know there's so many stocks moving every
single day and to really crush and
capitalize on trades like you do need to
focus and have like a priority watch
list where you prioritize like what's
the most actionable for your playbook
and this is a great way of doing it.
>> Yeah, I agree. I it's it's funny to me
too like on the bandwidth topic if we
wanted to jump for a sec like it what is
great about hidden relative strength is
that you get the little tips early that
okay there's a bid here this thing could
break out in a big way when the market
reclaims. What's also really hard about
it is actually just keeping track of
these names and not forgetting that.
Okay. Oh, that was really like
relatively strong this day and like that
aspect of keeping track I find kind of
interesting because that's the whole
name of the game,
>> right? Yeah. You want to you want to
have a watch list written down somewhere
that's organized systematically
in buckets, right? And like I know a lot
of people on our desk will have just
purely like what's the relative strength
watch list. It's literally a list of
names that have exhibited relative
strength in this way and that's it. And
like maybe they set up, maybe they
don't, but that's that's kind of the the
the stocks you don't want to lose track
of in that respect. I think that's a
really good idea,
>> especially if you're
>> a breakout trader.
Even talking again about relative
strength, it's like it's pretty easy
right now to say uh SNDK is relatively
strong above 540, right? [laughter]
>> Is that relative strength? I mean,
>> not what we're talking about.
>> And it blew it blew out earnings
tonight. It's at like where where up
this was fun, Tim. I'm glad I'm glad you
brought me out of hiding for this
because I've been I've been in in bed
for like a week and a half with the flu
with a with a bottle of uh cough syrup
next to me, which I I hate that stuff.
Remind me never to take that that stuff
next time I get sick. I'm done with
that. But I
>> they got to start making it a better
flavor, like just CocaCola or something.
Yeah, I've been uh hopping out
occasionally as as the metals have been
going crazy and and making some trades,
but it's it's nice to be part of
civilization again. Um
>> with silver and gold, talk about your
own uh Michael Jordan flu game this
week.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if I would call
it that. Um but anyway, this is this has
been great. I hope that uh yeah I hope I
hope people can kind of take something
from this and and you know with this
indicator these are the kind of things
in in Bionic Trader that we're that
we're kind of sharing and giving out. So
come join us
>> on Tuesdays.
>> Do you want to sit in on all of our
daily and weekly in-house trader
meetings? There's no bigger edge retail
traders can get. Visit
smbtradingfloor.com
to learn more.
>> Ask questions in the comments. Um at
some point we might look to answer some
of those. Uh, but keep asking question
in the comments and we'll try to
respond. And we're again still on
Spotify if that's your preferred way of
listening.
>> That's right.
>> And yeah, this was fun.
>> All right, until next time, trade well.
See you next week.