We are right now in Dubai sitting with
the man whose life story sounds like it
was written for a movie. Daru Sudi once
a multi-millionaire but then you lost
everything in a violent home invasion.
>> And they knew where my house was and I
say if you don't pay tomorrow we'll kill
you and the kids.
>> You've had a heart attack before. What
was the biggest perspective change in
life after that occurred?
>> I valued time so much more than ever
before.
>> You had a multi-million dollar empire,
lost it all, and you're rebuilding it.
What are those principles when you're
given a second chance at life that you
apply to the businesses going forward?
>> May I May I share with you what I do? We
have time to do this, right? Because I
swear to God I get excited because I'm
not smart. I'm stupid, but I had to do
it my own way and learn, right? Your
first member of staff, I say to every
one of them because you can take this
and I'll help you with it if you wish.
>> You're talking to three guys that are
hiring rapidly right now. So, this is
game for us right here.
>> If me and you died tomorrow and you had
one more guiding principle to leave with
the younger generation, what would that
be?
>> I think that's a really good question.
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James. I'm here with Jack
and Josh. And we are right now in Dubai
sitting with the man whose life story
sounds like it was written for a movie.
Daru Sudi was once a multi-millionaire,
but then you lost everything in a
violent home invasion. Months that
followed that, you lost everything.
health, relationships, money, and you
didn't just build everything back, you
built it back a lot bigger. Came out to
Dubai and built an absolute empire.
Where I want to start today is I want
you to take us back to that night of the
home invasion. What really happened?
>> Sure. Well, thank you. Welcome to my
office. So, great. Great. Um, welcome to
Dubai as well. I miss you guys a lot.
Your energy is amazing and your success
incredible. So um 2008 200 I can't so
back long back now I was at my house uh
my wife had met someone my ex-wife we
were divorced and recently and she'd met
someone in Dubai and she was living here
I decided to be a single father looking
after my my kids and uh I was I lived in
a townhouse so there was a bedroom
underneath the lounge and the kitchen
upstairs and then the bedrooms further
up so I was on my computer and it's
about 9:00 and I don't like wearing
shirts so I was I topless in my house
and and there's a doorbell ringing and
I'm shouting to the kids. Somebody
answered the door and thank God they
couldn't hear it. So I was going down
the stairs. I put my shirt on making
sure everything was okay and open the
door and bang men walked into the house
and um I I knew one of them and he was
one of my franchises.
Okay. And they pinned me against the
wall demanding quarter of a million
pounds.
>> How much money?
>> Quarter of a million pounds. And at the
time the guy was let me cut him. let me
cut him. I don't know what he was
talking about. I was so nervous. Then I
realized he had a knife to my neck. And
he was saying to the guy, "Let me cut
him." Like cut his throat. And um all I
could think, James, all I could think
was, I hope my daughter doesn't open the
door. That's all I could think because I
could hear her singing and I was
thinking, I hope she doesn't because
it'll scar her, right? So I said to
them, I don't carry this kind of money.
Said obviously he knew where I my office
was. They've been stalking me. They knew
where my house was. And I said, "If you
don't pay tomorrow, we'll kill you and
the kids." So, um, they left and I
phoned my business partner and he says,
"Call the police." Within 20 minutes,
they were arrested. They had my address
in the car. They had their fingerprints
on the doorbell. It wasn't exactly
difficult. And then, but I was worried
about my kids and because I don't know
who they knew they could send around,
right? So, I put the kids on a plane
that night and I flew them to Dubai. Uh,
I drove home the next morning. I went
stayed in a hotel, police escort, packed
my 4x4 and I had a I had three
apartments in Spain and I drove from
Manchester, north of England, all the
way down to do, cut the train um the
tunnel, France, Spain in 48 hours. I I
didn't sleep. I was like this. Didn't
know what had happened to me. And um I
never went back to that house. Never
been back to that house. And then after
a few months um I had a heart attack
because um and then when I was on my
hospital bed I was crying and I wasn't
crying because I was worried about
death. I was crying that I was on my own
and there was no kids around me. Uh they
put me on morphine which is a great
thing by the way. Morphine. I was
floating on the bed and because they
want to relax your uh vessels and um I
started thinking I'm actually really not
happy. I'm not happy where I'm where I'm
living. I'm not happy with England. I
don't like rain. Uh I didn't like my
business partner. I I wasn't in an
industry I enjoyed. I had health clubs.
Um nothing I enjoyed. I just doing it
for the money. So I wrote down if I
lived through this and I said I didn't
have much chance of living surviving.
What would I do? I said first thing is I
want to be with my kids and they're in
Dubai happy. I want to be in Dubai. Um
whatever it is I want to burn my boats.
and what are the values that I want in
my life like honesty,
communication, loyalty and I wrote all
these down and my principles and um I
was very honest tried selling my
businesses
um and I got gazumped because I was very
honest. Somebody came and paid me 10% of
my deposit for my business didn't pay me
90 and said sue me knowing it'll take
years. So I walked away from everything.
The government came after me, the bank
came after me. I paid everyone. I was
too proud to go bankrupt, which I wish I
had done. Kept a lot more money. And I
came here with $750 in my pocket.
>> And you ended up building everything
back.
>> Yes. And happily. Happily. And I pick
and choose who I do business with. Um,
even when I had nothing, I stuck to my
guns because a lot of people are
desperation. They got partners that they
don't have the same values and they just
do it for the money. But since then
until now, I've kept that
>> hunger for values and hunger for money.
Really?
>> One of the people that was there that
night was a franchisee.
>> Yes.
>> One of the people closest to you,
someone that you trust to do business
with when you're rebuilding your empire
and rebuilding your life, what did that
kind of teach or what what approach did
you take going forward about who you
were going to decide to do business
with?
>> I think looking back, first of all, I
take full responsibility for everything.
Okay. I still don't like the guy, but I
attracted him in my life. And I recall I
was so into growing my business because
we run out of cash. It was going so
fast. I needed franchises and their
money to come in for me to a scale. And
um I remember he was like, "Don't put
things in writing." I was like, "That's
a bit strange, you know, send this to
this account." And I was like, the money
was so if I wasn't so focused, the signs
were always there. So I decided to avoid
those signs. But now I just step back,
take a deep breath, check my values. Is
there any signs out there? And if
there's none, then I'd start do business
with them. But I I kind of if I taken a
step back, I should have guessed that
they were just not good people,
>> if that makes sense.
>> I want to go back. You left Iran.
Eventually you moved to London. The
first vehicle that you found was
ultimately sales.
How did you get into sales and what did
you learn about that in terms of how
much of an impact that would have on the
success of your business career?
>> Sure.
>> Well, I think it's the it's having a
good relationship with the word sales is
the ve first thing cuz the moment you
pick people they go I don't I'm not a
salesperson, right? So for me it's
because I wasn't educated and the only
way I could provide for my family
because I lost my father and grandfather
when I was very young it was I was told
to provide for the family. provide for
the family and I just thought the only
way I can provide got no education is to
sell something. So I saw Kirby vacuum
cleaners because you open the I don't
know it's same in the US but you open
your local newspaper and the first thing
you see is double glazing salespeople
Kirby vacuum cleaners computer I just
thought that's the job I take and I got
rejected from more I got fired from more
jobs than I can remember I walked away
from more job but along the way every
step I learned and the reason I
succeeded is because I'm enthusiastic
about other people and that's really
sales I didn't know what sales was. But
I realized that if you're enthusiastic
about something and somebody likes you,
highly likely they're going to find a
way to do business with you. And that's
worked for me. I wasn't particularly a
great salesperson.
>> When you were sitting on the hospital
bed after the first heart attack, did
you realize it wasn't anything like
instantaneous that caused it that maybe
it was like a subtle stress that led up
to that moment? Because I feel that
there's a lot of people in life that
they they don't put the priorities
forward first about like their health or
some of the things that matter most to
them and they put business or they put
things that in the long run might not
necessarily matter uh first and it
causes them a lot of stress subtly and
they don't do anything about it. They
call stress the silent killer. What do
you think it was for you that when you
were sitting there?
>> Yeah, I think stress has always Thank
you. Great question. I think stress has
always been in my life but it's that
sudden shock of it that that was
inevitably the cause of my heart attack
but somehow you you get used to stress
right as an entrepreneur used to loads
of stress but as an employee less stress
but to me it was the shock of it but
it's like human if if you have pre
prevention health prevention it's a lot
more difficult to sell than pain
prevention because people only act when
they have pain right they don't think
I'm going to do something that to
prevent something. So unfortunately,
human psychology, you just avoid it.
We're having a conversation before the
cameras went on. Said, "I should really
still put my health first." But then
when you're young, 25, you know, you
think, "Oh, I'm Superman. I can do this.
I can have no sleep. I can do this. I
can do because you're burning the candle
at both ends." And people told me it'll
catch up with you. No, not me. I'm
Superman. But eventually, it does catch
up.
>> One of my favorite quotes of all time is
that a sick man wants or a rich man
wants a thousand things. A sick man
wants only one thing and that's their
health. Is it even worth it to achieve
such financial success if the downfall
of your health which you're not even
focusing on is ultimately inevitable? Is
that one of your regrets maybe is not
prioritizing your health at an early age
when you were building your company. Was
it worth it? I have no regrets. They're
all lessons. Okay. But even now I think
to myself to have avoided the health
issue I could have had better people in
my life. people who add value rather
than take away my energy because I think
everything's energy. So, no regrets. Um,
balance is the key. You can have it all.
I believe in abundance. You can have the
best health, best money, everything.
It's just that it's out there. People
just focus on certain things and not the
other. So, um, does that answer your
question? I think you can have perfect
health and lots of money. You don't have
to sacrifice one for the I wanted to
ask, you came to Dubai with $750 in your
pocket. What did you do to build your
empire back?
>> What I knew was sales. So I started door
knockocking. Didn't have a car. And I'll
turn around. What happened? I realized
that most business have five or six
things in common. Okay. And what I knew
was the health industry. So there's
couple of streets in Dubai that always
have clinics and beauty salons and
health businesses. So, I knew that most
people didn't invest in the soft skills.
So, I'll walk in and I'll say to the
owner, I say, "Do you have your window
to your to the world is your
receptionist?" Okay. When you sit in
front of someone, do you close them 100%
of the time? But the problem is you're
not getting enough people to sit in
front of. What if I trained your
salespeople uh the receptionist and you
got extra 30% in business? Would you pay
me 30% of that increase? They said,
"Yes, if I don't, I'll give you, you
know, I don't charge you anything." And
it worked. So, I worked on the soft
skills of receptionist. So, I got more
people sitting in front of the clinic
owners. They knew how to close. And then
then they came to me and said, "All
right, can you do my social media? Can
you do my website? Can you" and then
just the business scaled.
>> You started out building multi-million
dollar businesses in the UK.
>> Yes.
>> Lost everything. Came to Dubai, built
multi-million dollar businesses here.
I'm curious. Those are two polar
opposite countries in a lot of ways in
terms of how they're ran the
governments, right? You hear a lot about
how the UK very high taxes not
necessarily as businessfriendly compared
to like a Dubai. We talked about this.
The leaders are visionary.
>> They want the businesses to come here
and succeed. They want to invest in
their people.
>> What did you learn fundamentally about
the difference in the way that
businesses are set up to succeed in
Europe and in the UK as opposed to in
the Middle East in a place like Dubai?
>> Absolutely. Well, I felt I was
suffocating. I felt in in the UK I
worked 29 days for everybody else, for
the landlord, for the staff, for the tax
man, for the national insurance, for the
healthcare. And then if there was 30
days in a month, I had one day spare for
me. If it was a February, I was screwed,
right? 31 days, I had two days. So, it
wasn't the, you know, every month it was
like, here we go. I've got to pay
everybody first. Here, what you earn,
you keep. You don't pay taxes, right?
Also, what I found that clear skies, the
sunshines here every day. It's flat
land. I I really see the vision long
distance, right? Before in Manchester,
you're in a valley. The most I saw
across was trees across the road from
me. So, lots of things just feel great,
you know, and setting up a business
takes a week. Yes. And you pay corporate
taxes, but then you you can get your
cost against it, so you don't have to
particularly pay tax, right? What what
percentage were you getting taxed in the
UK?
>> 50
>> 50
>> plus uh VAT value added tax runs at
around 20%.
>> Do you think people should be taxed?
>> I think that's a really good question.
Okay. In [clears throat] a true
capitalist country, okay, people should
pay least taxes. Unfortunately, we still
need to have the masses to support the
few of the top and we need to pay taxes
to support them. So if you're going to
create an environment where if you're
that 1% you can earn billions you have
to contribute to the masses who get you
there. So if you don't pay tax we just
very blessed here that the leadership is
very good. But if it was in another
country and the leadership but they
could just take everything and we don't
contribute. But when people are treated
with respect they pay the taxes on time.
If they treated with respect they they
respect the police they respect the
army. They respect the in England people
throw rocks at the fire uh fire brigade
when they're driving by or ambulances.
There's no respect for authority because
they feel they taking advantage of human
dignity taken away. Here you'd leave
cash or a key of a car or your wallet.
Nobody touches you. In England, I can't
I can't put my phone out or have it in
my hand cuz somebody could rob it.
>> Is are people just morally more sound
out here? What is it?
>> And here's the thing. People think it's
the immigrants in England. It's the
immigrants who brought but here the
country is full of immigrants, right?
It's respect. If you treat people with
respect, they respect you back. If you
take the dignity away, they'll retaliate
and then you can call them all sorts of
names. But uh even US was built by by
immigrants, right? But it's just further
generations. Here the country is 50
years old. So it's the first generation
of immigrants are building it. And I
think it's 82% immigrants here. It's the
only country where the locals are a
minority.
>> It's crazy how different that could be.
And I'm kind of curious for you. You had
a multi-million dollar empire, lost it
all, and you're rebuilding it. What are
those principles when you're given a
second chance at life that you apply to
the businesses going forward?
>> I'm fully responsible for everything. At
the time it was actually not that
difficult for me to get up at 5, work
seven days a week because I'd burned all
my boats. There was no turning back.
There was no option. There was no
savings. I had three kids who hadn't
gone to school for 6 months, you know. I
lived in a major was it's embarrassing.
So the drive was easy. Um yeah. And then
and then when the money comes in, you
got to relax and make sure that you're
constantly growing yourself. Does that
does that kind of answer your question?
Well, I guess I'm I'm more like asking
like in terms of like principles, right?
In terms of like how you approach life,
how you approach business, like is it
did you work with your team members
differently? Did you lead from a
different way? Is was there a change in
terms of like how you led your teams and
built your companies between, you know,
prior to heart attack and then after?
>> Great. For the first few years, I was
setting my time as a consultant. I'll
turn up in businesses. I'll work half a
day and go to the next one and I was
constantly in between prospecting and I
kept asking myself the question I'm not
ever going to build that wealth selling
my time right so for three and a half
years and for two years of that I was
doing visa runs going to Oman and back I
didn't have enough money to set up a
company and my clients paid me cash
checks so it was really under the radar
and desperation so
after three and a have you heard of the
Muhammad Ali story have I told no you
don't know okay so do you mind if I
share
I I believe in miracles. I believe in
miracles. So I kept asking for three and
a half years, how can I build a business
that's not relying on my time? I didn't
have one member of staff and here
without a location, you can't hire
anyone. Without a company set up, I
can't give you a visa. So my hands were
tied. And then um I was researching the
internet and somebody said that Muhammad
Ali, my hero of my childhood, has a
center called the Ali Center in
Louisville, Kentucky. And they said he I
checked it online and he and he pushes
Muhammad Ali's principles and they're
very close to my principles, find their
greatness within and Dubai and UAE have
problems with um diabetes because a lot
of people are not exercising enough. So
I thought what if I go to meet Muhammad
Ali, meet my hero and bring his Ali
center here in Dubai. Wouldn't that be a
great idea? And I'll meet my hero. I
meet Shik Muhammad the ruler of here and
everybody's happy. So, I started um
talking to people and I pitched for two
years and I was still doing a a one-man
band business and I met the last shake
and he said, "Nobody's going to nobody's
interested. Nobody's going to interested
in an old boxer. You're not going to
make money." So, I was stuck. But one of
my friends said, "Have you heard of
Facebook?" I said, "Yeah." He goes, "Why
don't you open a Facebook page?" So, I
opened up a Facebook page and I sent a
heartfelt letter to my friends. I said,
"If 50 of you follow me in the morning,
I'll continue chasing my dreams. If you
don't, I I'll forget about it." Posted,
went to bed, 100 people were following
me. And suddenly, this letter went
viral. I had like 50,000 followers in 10
days. And 3 weeks goes by and a phone
rings and uh say, "Can you be available
at 9:00?" So, I pick up a phone at 9:00.
It's Mrs. Muhammad Ali.
>> And he said, "Muhammad's heard about
your campaign and he wants to support
you. can you meet? He wants to meet you.
So, I borrowed money, took several
flights, went up in uh uh Louisville,
Kentucky, and I was sitting in a
restaurant, sandwich board in the
background. I thought, I haven't posted
yet, right? Since that one post, I
haven't posted to that community. So, I
took a picture. I said, "Thanks to you
guys. I'm just about to see my my hero
and I'm going to chase my dream."
And 7,000 people replied, right? So on
the back of a handkerchief, I actually
wrote down a business plan to open up a
social media company and I was going to
charge less than a less than a cleaner.
Came back within one year I had 300
clients. So and then I took that and
people came and said, "Okay, now I love
the way you're managing this. Um, can
you do websites?" I had no clue. So I
Googled it, took their money and uh I
hired my first web developer.
>> So you you sold it first and figured it
out later.
>> Exactly. Never refused the cash. Is that
something that you feel like a lot of
like new entrepreneurs or people who are
just getting started, they get it all
wrong? Is
>> Yeah. They're perfectionist. Perfect
timing, perfect product, perfect this.
They don't do any market research. Yeah.
>> And and the thing is you can't eat if
you don't sell.
>> Absolutely.
>> And I'm I'm a big believer in the fact
of like people want to set up the entire
back end. They want to figure out spend
all this time with the logo and the
colors. And so guys,
none of that matters unless you have
clients and customers. Absolutely.
>> Because if you don't have any clients
and customers and things
>> and then you deliver, right? Because
that's your reputation, right? So
absolutely sell, get the money in, find
out how, recruit the right people. So
what I did was I was very aware as I
grew and then people came and sorry the
story how I glue it to a empire or
whatever. And I get a bit embarrassed
when you say use the word empire because
you know what's it all about? We're all
going to die, right? So I just got I'm
blessed. I feel blessed. So anyhow we we
had the websites and people said we
can't find your website. Interesting
SEO. So now we my son runs one of the
biggest SEO companies in the whole of
UAE. And they came and said it's too
slow. Oh yeah, really? Oh, you need
Google Google ads. And so now I had four
companies and we became Google premier
partners, top 3% in the in the region.
Uh and that's how it grew. Then they
needed training. So we got a training
school, recruitment company and it just
grew but all based on my values. So I
have a value book. Even my team members
with the starter said these are my
values. Can you adhere to them? Not my
book itself. It's a value book. Just my
principles and values if they adhere to
and so when I fire people they thank me.
They say you're right cuz you told me
you had your values and I'm the one who
let you down.
>> Dude, I I want everybody that's
listening that is doesn't have a company
yet but they want to be an entrepreneur
to listen to that. Basically
entrepreneurship is you find a problem
in the market and you saw you find a way
to solve that problem and deliver it at
a high level and you can charge a good
price for it and that's that's how
business is made
>> and so many people are like man I want
to I want to start my own business like
what do you do and it's just like every
you just laid it you started four
companies just by finding a problem and
they vertically integrated on each other
too. It wasn't like, you know, you
started doing that and then you did
underwater basket weaving. You know what
I mean? Like, no, it was one after the
other. So, it's very I I I am I do have
a question, though. So, you built
multi-million dollar businesses and then
you did it again.
>> Yes.
>> What are the differences between the
first time that you built a
multi-million dollar company and the
second time you built a million dollar
company? What is the two from like just
something you learned there to like
maybe something you did differently the
second time around?
>> The first time I got into that market
because my ex-wife was in that business.
>> So it was just accidentally I was not
interested in health clubs, right?
>> Health clubs.
>> Health clubs. What exactly does that
mean?
>> Okay. When she used to own a beauty
salon and in England the beauty salons
were above post office and villages and
stuff like this. I saw an opportunity to
have out of town health clubs whereby
you can play tennis, swimming pool,
crash, beauty salon, spas, squash,
everything was under one roof. So I I
pitched it to her and she goes, "I'm I'm
not sure. She's not a risk taker." So I
went and opened this up. I got the
lease. It was very expensive, but we had
many thousands of people go through the
door. So it gave her confidence because
I'm a hunter. She's a farmer just like
my son, right? So I think in your own
business you need a hunter and a farmer.
>> So the hunter goes and has the ideas
takes the risk expands the business and
then the farmer looks after the mess
cultivates everything puts operations
systems in place. So when she joined
suddenly we had like 17,000 members.
Yes. They're coming through our doors
every there was a restaurant in there,
outdoor pool, indoor pool and then we
expanded. We had seven and we ran them
for like 17 years. How much money were
you making?
>> It's a long ago. All I know at the time
where my banking cards froze, I had 3
million in the cash in my account at the
time. There was like a fly on the wall
documentary on me months before. Um I to
be honest with you, I I'd divorced by
then and I thought it's a good way to
pick up women to get on TV. So they
approached me and they said, "All right,
we'll have you on 7:00 on Thursday on
Mainland TV." I was like, "Okay, then
surely, you know, I somebody's going to
be find me appealing." So, there was a
fly on the wall documentary on me for
several weeks. Not one person approached
me. So, the final episode I went to the
club. I was like, "Okay, somebody's
going to" and this gorgeous girl came
approaching me and I was like, "It
works. This works, right?" So, he
came say, "Hi, hi." Halfway through the
conversation, I realized she may
mistaken identity. She thought I played
in some movie. I was I know it didn't
work. So I was like should I tell her I
told her and she walked off. I was like
it didn't work.
>> You know when Josh I wanted to go back
to uh Josh asked you you know when you
had mentioned that one of the people
that was in that home invasion was one
of your franchises and you know he was
talking about how you know that's
somebody that you once had trusted. He
was a part of your business. The thing
that stood out to me about your response
to when he asked that was that you said
that it was your fault
>> because you let them into that business.
>> Yes. And what I've seen just even in the
course of the podcast is I think
personal accountability is very
important to you.
>> Totally.
>> Have you seen that the reason why
businesses fail is because of the ego of
the founder or the CEO running that
company and their reluctance to take
accountability for the decisions that
they make?
>> Also, it could be absolutely and it
could be fear right. If I let go, how do
I know he or she is going to make right
decisions? So, what they do is they
bottleneck everything. it has to go
through me to have the final say
>> because I have the fear of failure.
>> Okay. So what I suggest is right from
the beginning empower your team to make
this. So when somebody comes to me they
say I've got these problems. I said well
what's the solution and give me the
reason why you come with these
solutions. I'm never going to fire you
or shout at you but I'll give you
feedback. So right from the beginning
even your first member of staff empower
them. Okay. And what you find they take
a little bit more risks because most I
realize most employees are motivated by
one thing and that's keeping their jobs
>> safe safety. They don't get fired.
>> It it kind of this kind of plays on the
topic of st. We've talked about stress a
little bit here but I remember Jeff
Bezos he said that because somebody
asked him in an interview they were just
like how do you manage stress running
this company? And he said, "I'm very
good at figuring out what you can and
can't control because the things you
can't control, why are you worried about
them? You can't do anything about them
anyways. But the things you can control,
okay, you can at least do something
about them." And if you take personal
accountability, you're giving yourself
like, "Hey, I can do something about it
because I'm not if if you blame it on
somebody else, then you're just like
you're all stressed out. It's like, oh,
I can't control this thing because they
screwed me over or whatever." But if you
but if you take that personal you mean
like man I could have done something
different about this and you learn from
it the next time you you're not going to
get freaked out about it as much
anymore. When I go to the west
>> and when I say like UK, Europe, what I
hear is people complain about taxes, the
government, and I'm like, God, they've
actually abdicated all responsibility to
the government, right? Here, you're just
fully responsible. I have the best
healthcare, but I got to pay for it,
right? You can have the best car. You
got to pay for it, right? You earn it.
Nobody's going to give it to you. So, I
can't bear listening to people blaming
the government.
>> The the victim mentality. I I think I
think I love that because people spend
so much time worrying about what the
government's going to do, the
president's going to do or how the
economy is going. And I was like,
>> I don't worry about that at all. I don't
I barely even watch the news. I'm
worried about the economy of Josh. Yeah.
>> And what I can control.
>> What's like when we have elections in
the US, it's like, you know, and you
someone that doesn't have a lot of
money, they're quote unquote broke,
right? And they're just like they're all
freaking out about who the president's
going to be. It's like it don't matter
if it's Joe Biden or Trump in that
office next week or Kamal or whoever it
is.
>> You're still gonna be broke next week.
>> You're still gonna be broke.
>> You don't pay taxes anyway. So what are
you complaining about? Yeah.
>> Until you get up and get after it.
>> But here's the thing. If you actually
speak to the billionaires, they're happy
paying more taxes, but as long as they
know it's going to the right places,
right?
>> And that's what we've said. That's
that's what we've said. Like at the end
of the day like the whole I think
discussion about tax is you know making
sure that it's going to initiatives to
actually benefit the people whether it's
you know veterans within a country
homeless people right to actually help
people out contribute to the society not
everybody wants their money sent to
places and to do things that really have
no impact on the betterment of their
country or themselves as an individual
or their their community.
>> So true.
>> Do you know how many homeless people are
in the US? a lot.
>> Have a guess.
>> Okay. What? There's 300 million people
in the US. I'm trying to think about I'm
gonna go uh
>> You got to go higher than what it is. I
think
>> 35 million.
>> I'll go
>> homeless. Wow.
>> It's probably less than that.
>> 500,000.
>> 500,000.
>> It's not that much. I thought it would
be more, right? But here's the problem.
It's cheaper to give them housing than
look after them on the streets.
>> But why why are they on the streets?
>> You have have a guess. Cuz they want to
be. Yeah, I was going to say like
>> it's their choice.
>> Yeah,
>> right. Homeless, they got the freedom.
They can have excess drinking,
everything.
>> But some people just let the set the bar
so low, they're happy.
>> It's almost like somebody wins the
lottery, right? Like a lot of people
that win the lottery, they end up going
broke
>> because it's like, hey, you got the life
ch you got the life-changing money,
>> but like
>> no plan, no clue, sabotage everything.
Yeah.
>> What are you laughing about?
>> Oh, I just need resonating, isn't it?
>> Yeah. I said 35 million homeless people.
[laughter]
If there's 35,000 If there's 35 million
homeless people, we got a serious
problem. [laughter]
>> That is a reasonable.
>> He was like, "Go higher." I was I was
like I was like, "Fuck." Like, I got I
It's got to be really bad.
>> Where did you Where'd you [laughter]
live?
>> San Francisco right in downtown.
>> We live in Austin. There there is a
little bit of a population out there. I
know, but there's a lot of alcohol
colleagues around Austin hanging around
the street.
>> But but it's so true. You know, you look
at you look at like a you look at like
somebody that wins the lottery and they
go they go broke within within a couple
years and it's like you had all the
tools, but they just they didn't know
what to do with it. So,
>> absolutely. I met Jordan Belelfford a
couple of weeks ago
>> and I don't know if his story he he sold
um he when he was 16 he saw an
opportunity to sell ice cream on New
York beaches and he couldn't personally
cover the whole beach all day long but
he was personally making $2,000 a day in
the 70s and he hired five of his friends
and he said look I'll teach you how to
do this I'll take 10% of your sales and
five of his friends went out there and
he showed them exactly how to make
$2,000 a day four of them came back
making $200 and they went
Only one of them made $2,000 a day. Why
do you think that is?
>> And they had the same area of the beach,
same business, same prospects, same
everything.
>> They just didn't the people, the four
people, they just didn't do the work.
>> They did the work.
>> They didn't have a strong enough why.
They have a reason to.
>> When they started, they said, "If I make
$200, I'll be happy."
So the moment they made $200, they
packed up and went. The other guy went,
"No, I'm hungry. I want to make $2,000.
So he went and refilled his tray of ice
cream several times. So what happens
before the game starts, people decide
where they're happy.
You see, they've got no plan, no
strategy, no contribution plans,
nothing. And they get lost.
>> Isn't it interesting? It's all mindset.
It's all mindset. People wait for it to
come and then change the mindset. No,
no, no. You change the mindset and the
money will come.
>> I want to talk about that real quick.
Right? You are a modern day gladiator,
right? We nobody can argue that. What is
kind of that fundamental mindset shifts
that you've had with all the adversity
that you've overcome that you would are
instilling in your children and just the
younger generation in general? What are
some of those essential mindset shifts
that everybody needs to have in order to
become successful?
>> Abundance. Believe in abundance and
self-worth. There's enough money for
everyone. There's enough health for
everyone and self-worth because the
universe pays you what you think you're
worth. So if I I I say to my students or
followers, I say look at your bank
statement and that reflects on how much
you think you're worth in the
marketplace.
And if it's too low, change, right? But
work on your self-worth. So I'll give
you an example. When I arrived here, I
was charging $750 a month to manage
people's accounts. Now I charge $10,000
an hour. Okay? For my podcast, people
are paying me 20,000 $20,000 per hour.
Okay. And I'm thinking of raising it.
What has changed? What has changed from
the Dish who was here 16 years ago to
the Dish that here now? My mindset
because at the beginning I was like, who
would want to hire me? I'm new to the
marketplace. Nobody knows. I had more
energy than I have now. Just my mindset
changed. You would have had a better dar
than you do now. Would would would you
say that that's a very big flaw that you
see in a lot of business owners is that
they don't understand pricing in terms
of like you know they actually provide a
lot of value but they're not willing to
kind of charge high because they think
that oh it's a competitive market my
competitors are cheaper when and at the
end of the day if you do have that
competitive angle of you're faster
you're better you're you know stronger
than the people your competitors then by
all means do that work with the right
clients. There's not, you're absolutely
right. There's not one industry that
I've seen that's not competitive. And
the most common thing people say to me
is that I'm in a competitive industry. I
said, well, name one that isn't
competitive, right? But make your why.
What's your unique selling proposition?
How much big problems are you fixing?
And that problem, how much is it costing
your pro prospect? Right? And if you're
going to save them that money, charge
accordingly,
>> right?
>> Not because you think I'm worth $100, so
I'll charge $100. and you find out that
somebody is charging $10,000 for the
same solution.
>> It's it's like, hey, yes, the cost is
$10,000, but the cost to not have this
is you missing out on making 100 grand
from what you could potentially what we
can implement in your business, whatever
it may be, whether it's a product,
service, you know, consulting, whatever
it may be.
>> Absolutely. I'll give you one example
that I went through if you don't mind.
>> Yeah. I was in Dubai and we had this
kind of well-known marketing company now
agency online marketing agency and a
deal came from one of the rulers sons on
the table and I know they have deep
pockets okay so I got my cost and I
multiplied by literally 15 what I
normally charge I thought they got deep
pockets I I 15 times it right and I put
the proposal forward and it came back
rejected said proposal was too good but
we're rejecting it really good but we're
rejecting it I said Why? Because you
were too cheap.
Can you believe it? And they hired an
Italian company who had the branding and
they didn't even have a presence in
Dubai because the deal was so lucrative.
They opened their office and started
trading here. After a year, they got
fired. But the point is that sometimes
the sizzle is really, you know, is if
you're charging cheap, you're it's
perceived as low value.
>> Yep. The the best clients want to hire
the best vendors.
>> They don't even care about money. some
of the best. Now, here's the thing. If
you if you're dealing with a business
who who's going to give you 15% of their
income to help them grow, they're going
to be on your case. But if you're
dealing with a larger company that is a
minute percentage, they're not going to
be on your case. They let you go, right?
Breathe.
>> Yeah.
>> Do well. Sometimes what I say is never
make a business decision based on your
current financial situation.
>> Base it on your values and they will
come. And then when you get rid of the
one of the strongest, look, this true,
right? One of the biggest things I
learned was I fired my shitty clients. I
fired the clients who couldn't afford to
pay me more. And suddenly the phone
started ringing. And I've done this
several times in the last 16 years. And
I'd rather deal with the billionaires
and billion-dollar companies have
massive impact. And the small ones are
on your case all the time. And it's
suffocating. You're blocking the energy.
Hey, hey, you know, you've got the
$50,000 client, which they send the
money, they they let you implement the
$500 client is, [laughter]
you know what I mean? It's it's
insanity.
>> Oxygen to their business, right?
>> Yeah.
>> He said, "Look, I respect you, but we
moved on." Now, at that time, I needed
you, but right now, we moved on, and
I'll bless you. Uh, so I just want to
kind of clarify and emphasize this, but
that one scenario when you kind of had
that deal potentially with the
government or, you know, the family that
was involved and they ended up going
with that person because you were too
cheap. Was that when it clicked for you
that like from now on I'm never going
to, you know, try and have the mentality
in business that, oh, I'm going to
charge market value or below to kind of
get competition. You're like, no, I'm
going to charge at at a premium and
provide the right services. Was that
when it clicked for you?
>> Indeed. And also what clicked was that
the sizzle sells. So what I need to do
is I need to focus on my own branding.
What you've done. I need to make sure I
have better followers. And when somebody
goes on my social media, they kind of
get what I do. Yes. I start talking
about the clients and the positive
impact of it had on their business. So
obviously somebody along the way
somebody checked and I thought, well,
there seems really good, but it's a bit
of a risk. But these Italian companies
seem really good. So let's go ahead with
them because money is not an issue. We
just don't want to get fired making a
wrong decision. I I think it goes to
show you that perception really is
reality.
>> And if you can control the perception,
especially nowadays, you can unlock the
door for endless opportunity. And that's
why I look at like personal branding,
especially in today's day and age where
like the business card is dead, but your
social media profile, what how you
present yourself online is the new
digital business card.
>> You're 100% right. And I tell you,
everything I say is practical. It's
through experience. Cuz I'm not smart as
you guys. I'm nowhere near as smart as
you guys. So you guys will be
billionaires when you're my age. What I
notice is that before I had a social
media presence, people used to say, "How
much do you charge?" I had to justify.
Now they come and say, "Can I afford
you?" So they're approaching the same,
but the way they approach has changed.
So now they're saying, "Can I afford
you?" It's a different conversation than
having to justify yourself. So what I
say now, if you're having a conversation
where you're justifying what you do,
it's a wrong conversation.
>> I also think there's a lesson in there
as well. is that if you don't charge a
premium in what you're worth, you can't
hire great talent because great talent
also want a great career, a great
income, and you can't hire great people
if you're not making any money.
>> You pay peanuts, you get monkeys, right?
So, absolutely. So,
>> yeah. [snorts]
>> Absolutely.
>> And I I think that's just like one of
the things especially like we've learned
is like I mean this past year we've gone
from I don't know we had 10 people at
the start of the year and now we have
over 50 50 team members.
>> Amazing. I'm proud of you. And and it's
just like so many lessons have been
learned along the way of just like of
course like I think one of the biggest
ones you talked about is like you can't
do everything yourself. Like as the
owner I feel like so many people become
the bottleneck and it's like you
literally just have to pour into other
people to be hey I'm going to be the
visionary and I can kind of pour into
you but like if the decision is waiting
for me I'm the problem.
>> Yeah. And also often the problem is that
they want people to be as good as them.
So I say just the most you're going to
get is 80% as good as you. But if you
get somebody who's as good as you,
they're going to be your competition. So
don't ever wish for that, right? So be
happy with 80%, put systems in place.
But look at this country. I was
thinking, you know, it's got the best
airline, best phone system, internet
system, best highways, best police. It's
got everything. And one man started it
all, right? One man's vision when it was
just desert, right? But what he's done,
he's recruited well and he's got really
great people he can trust to monitor the
performance. I
>> I want to I want to challenge you on
that one thought that you had about
getting people 80% as good as you. And
my thought process being that do you
think that the issue with that is that
if you get somebody that's 80% as good
as you and then they want people now
they're in charge of hiring or expanding
their team, they want people 80% as good
as them. Well, then that's 60% of you
before you know it, you've got D's and
Fs in the company. Do you think that
there's some level of degree when you're
building a business that even though you
mentioned that even if you get that
person that is as good as you, their
competition, does that help fuel the
company and grow more or do you kind of
still kind of believe in the idea of you
still want to be the the person who's
the guy that's the best at what he's
doing in the company? I'm just kind of
curious to get your philosophy and
perspective on that.
>> Question. There's several answers to
that. First of all, I will always have
somebody independent recruiting. I won't
have my team leader recruiting.
>> So they will get diluted. But if there's
somebody independent like a HR
department or HR person or your wife or
girlfriend doing it, they will always
get that 80% max. Never recruit based on
CVS because all CVs are lies. So what I
do is I I recruit on motivation. Do they
have drive? Do they are they optimistic?
Are they happy people?
>> Yeah. And then I I set up a sevenstep
recruitment process. Um and I did very
well doing this in this country that
only hires motivated people. The seventh
step is the CV.
>> What do you mean by CV?
>> CV. Your um your resume. Okay. That's
right. Right. If job experience, can you
do it? Because somebody's motivated. You
can teach them anything.
>> And do you think a lot of their resume
is just
>> All I've never seen anyone
that says I've got fired. Have you ever
seen a resume that say I got fired? Have
you ever seen a resume where it says I
had my hand in the till and I got caught
or Yeah.
>> If there's one thing I've learned
through hiring is that anyone can be
present themselves well, they can talk
well, but the moment you give them a
technical part of the interview, it
really exposes who's all talk and who
can actually do the job well.
>> Very interesting.
>> May I May I share with you what I do we
have time to do this right?
>> Okay. Because I swear to God, I get
excited because everything you're going
through, I learned my cuz I'm not smart.
I'm stupid, but I had to do it my own
way and learn, right?
>> You're talking to three guys that are
hiring rapidly right now. So, this is
game for us right here.
>> This as well.
>> So, what what I decided to do is um
recruit only superstars. So, I place an
ad based on emotions, not job
responsibilities. Pretty much everybody
can post and do it stuff these days.
Yeah, even my eight-year-old does this
now, you know. So, so what I do is I
place an ad somewhere wherever it is and
it says based on the values that I'm
looking for. So, automatically I get 20
times more incoming calls than I would
if it was based on responsibilities,
right? So, the and the job title is
looking for superstars. So, my
receptionist is trained and when the
phone rings and he goes, "What makes you
a superstar?" straight away. And if they
don't know, you put the phone down,
right? So what you want is people to I
was thinking about that. All they have
to do is repeat a job
description. Yeah. It's that initiative,
isn't it? Yeah. I'm the person you're
looking for because I'm this, this,
this, this, this. They're getting into
>> I'm good at running ads. I'm good at
like I'm the best at building website.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> But the thing is you want to say that
you want to say I'm looking for honest,
driven, hardworking, happy, the values
that makes you look forward to seeing
them every day. P.S. We're looking for
web developers. That's all you want to
say, right? Right? So the phone rings
and you say, "Right, okay then you have
an interview with uh James tomorrow at
9:00 and you tell 20 people the same
thing." Okay? Because often when you
have a one-to-one interview, guess what?
They've practiced the questions you're
going to ask them. They know what
they're going to say. So it's just
you're all going and you're thinking,
"Oh god, I got six of these today." And
it's been proven that most people
recruit the last person they've seen
because they can't even remember the
morning guy, right? So and they
remember, "Oh, he spoke good English and
he was presentable." These are not the
way to recruit someone. You wonder why
it went wrong. Okay, so 20 people show
up. Now if you imagine 20 people
supposed to show up, three don't. So 17
show up. And what I do is I have my
receptionist as a spy and I have a spy
in the 17. Okay? And I run my interview
late by 15 to 20 minutes. So I monitor
how they behave when things don't go
according to plan. And then after a
while sitting in a dentist chair,
they're all looking at each other like
everybody's asking for James at 9:00,
right? This must be a group interview.
30% freeze because they don't like
change, right? So by the time I come in
or James comes in, you've already
eliminated 50% of the people because
they have the wrong attitude. So I come
in and I get them to interview each
other because when they interview,
they're ready. But when they say,
"Right, ask yourself an interesting
question." And you won't believe how
many people can't ask one question.
You're a natural, right? You go bang
bang. They get rebuttal. Bang bang. Yes.
But most people can't even ask one
interesting question. Like somebody
says, "Are you happy in Dubai?" I mean,
that's not a good question, right? On
hello. Yes. So, you want somebody and
then what I'll do is this goes on for
about 20 minutes to half an hour and
some of them like ask a question. So,
what do you like? Well, I'm really moody
in the mornings and they realize it's an
interview. Okay. So, you're picking up
on it. So end of the day, end of the 20
minutes, this piece of paper in front of
them, I said, "Listen, my decision is
just one of 18 people, right? So before
you leave, write down who you would
interview or who you would hire if you
were in my position." And then when they
leave, you see how many people voted for
who. And then you want James to write
down me,
right? And what's incredible that most
people vote for somebody else to be
hired.
>> Yeah.
>> And you want that superstar to come
back.
>> One of the I'm sure you you probably 17
hours, right? And all in 40 minutes. And
by this time, they're all thinking,
"Fuck, I want to work for these guys.
It's really interesting what they're
doing."
>> I'm sure you have a system now, but it
probably didn't start out that way in
terms of like you were value, you hired
off of values. Um, if there's one thing
that I've learned is that mold spreads
and if someone's a superstar,
>> yes,
>> they're going to, you know, someone's
going to be like, you know what, I need
to work like that. You know, they're
going to feel empowered. But also if
someone's even if they're a superstar,
they're great at their role, but they
are
>> most people are lazy. Most people go to
the lowest common denominator.
>> So what I do is most people think, okay,
then he's he's he's got a bit of an
attitude. I can change it. Cut it. If
you find yourself motivating someone,
they're the wrong people.
>> Well, because what I was going to ask
you is, have you ever had a scenario
within your company or companies where
someone was great at their role, but
they weren't a culture fit and you had
to let them go?
>> Yeah. All the time. All the time. And I
can't sleep at night because I'm a nice
guy and I care. But end of the day, I
have a responsibility to other members
of staff. I have a responsibility to
shareholders. And because I always had
kids from a young age, I'm responsible
for my kids inheritance. So it makes the
job easier, but it always hurts. They're
always thinking and then what you find
is very next afternoon they found a job
somewhere else. You're thinking all that
worry, all that sleepless nights because
they don't want to hurt their feelings.
They don't give a anyway. They go,
they go. So cut the cancer quick,
higher, slow, fire, fast. So, what I do,
if you don't mind, I say to every one of
them, because you can take this and I'll
help you with it if you wish. And it's
really unique. I opened up a recruitment
agency based on this recruitment, right?
And I was charging $2,000 for an hour
and I had agents all over the place
recruiting for people. Um, when COVID
struck, I just downsized. I thought, I
don't want to handle all these people.
Um, so what happens, I say, in an hour,
we will call you and let you know if you
got to the second stage. So what you
find is 17 people go downstairs and have
coffee together, right? And they're
waiting because when you go for a job
application, may they may not even
respond to you. How many times they they
they say we'll call you back. Email
never comes. But because we showing
respect within one hour we call them all
and I reject every one of them. You
won't believe how many of them don't
answer the phone. Do right. I'll call
you in an hour and the phone rings are
not answering. Hello. Right. It's really
crazy. So by the way, say I'd reject
them all. I reject them all. But I want
the one who says questions me. Why? I
thought I did really well. I said, "No,
I'm just teasing you. You qualify for
the next second stage." Because you want
that person who has that oomph about
them and never quits. Right. Then I'll
talk about other stages later, but
James, please.
>> Yeah. One one thing that you had
mentioned um I think a couple times on
the podcast was that you don't consider
yourself to be a super smart person. And
what I've noticed with a lot of the
billionaires that we've interviewed,
some of the most successful people is
they they're they know themselves that
they're not super smart, right? C
students end up running the world. We
all hear that. Why do you think that is?
Why do you think it is people that
aren't necessarily the smartest book
smart people, right? You know, and I
think I think what it is is a lot of the
A students, right? They go off and
become a doctor, engineer, maybe make a
million dollars a year. But the people
that you oftent times see create massive
companies who are not necessarily the
smartest in school. I want to get your
take on why do you think that is?
>> I think by the way, you've interviewed a
lot more billionaires and millions than
I have in my lifetime.
What I think is that they can see the
bigger picture. So gladiators, they they
were born slaves, but the more battles
they fought, the more in bigger crowds,
they eventually they were set free. And
not much has changed now 2,000 years
later. Bill Gates became the richest man
because he put PCs on every desk. Tom
Cruz earns the most amount of money
because he has bums on seats more than
any other. So they have this bigger
picture. Poor people have limited
belief, right? They can't see. I give
you an example me. I was selling call
center dialing systems in the UK and I
found a prospect and he sold he was
selling kitchens. Okay. And Scotland,
are you from Scotland? It's like a north
of uh Donald Trump's got some golf
courses there. So it was north of
England and there's like I don't know
four or five million people live there.
This guy had already contacted every
household three times from his call
center selling kitchens. And I came home
thinking, what a stupid business, right?
you've already saturated. You called
everybody. He sold this business for
£350 million.
And I thought because he has a bigger
picture mentality. He sees the bigger
picture. I was limited thinking, well,
you call the guy, he's not going to buy
a kitchen again. But he just kept
calling and calling and it's numbers.
They see the numbers. They see the
bigger numbers.
>> So, you've had a heart attack before.
What was the biggest perspective change
in life after that occurred?
>> I value time so much more than ever
before. I think I used to piss time
away. Yes. Now I just don't say yes to
everybody. Before I say yes, I want to
see what the agenda is. I was available
to everyone. But now as I know that
there's no guarantee for tomorrow, I
make it count, right? I make it like
today I valued this. We did this last
minute. I had to chop chop and change
things. But I value this more than
anything today. So um yeah, you spend
the time wisely and what you find is
that Bill Gates and all these people
have the same time as us, but they just
fix bigger problems in that 24 hours
that they have than most of us do. It's
how we spend our time.
>> Love that. We like to end these podcasts
off with two questions for our guests.
This was beautiful. Um by the way, but
you know, Darouch, say it again.
>> It's okay. I'll take that. Dar
I I I don't want to mess it up. If me
and you died tomorrow and you had one
more guiding principle to leave with the
younger generation, what would that be?
>> Leave a amazing legacy cuz my success is
that how many people turn up at my
funeral because then my kids will see
it. Um and they go actually I better not
let his legacy down. I better do his
right principle, do the right things.
That's what I would do. On that note, it
sets us up for the perfect final
question.
>> For those people that attend that
funeral, how do you want to be
remembered?
>> Biggest heart. He lived his life.
Although he had heart attacks, although
he got screwed, he got taken advantage
of, lied to, cheated on, he never had a
closed heart because I rather have an
open heart and have it kicked and have a
closed heart and never live life.
>> Beautifully said.
>> This was a beautiful podcast.
>> I love you, man.
>> I want to just appreciate you letting us
come out here and getting to see you in
Dubai again. really made our trip. So,
for everybody that's tuned in right now,
guys, be sure to like and subscribe for
amazing content every week, cuz we're
not going all over just the United
States, but all over the world to bring
you guys the biggest business owners,
multi-millionaires, billionaires to give
you guys the advice in the game on how
to build million-dollar businesses and
do yourself an even bigger favor. Guys,
if you go down, click the link in the
description of this video, you can
become a member of the number one
entrepreneur community in the entire
world where you get direct access to
multi-millionaires and billionaires
every week on live calls that we host
where you ask your questions to eight,
nine, and even 10 figureure
entrepreneurs. They give you the
blueprint and the game on how to scale
out in today's world, how to invest, how
to make your money work for you. You
don't want to miss out. And lastly, got
to give a shout out to the man right
here, the modernday gladiator. Thank
you. I can't wait to check this one out
because this because here's the thing,
you know, the book title is the modern
day gladiator, but it was written by a
modern day gladiator. Thank you. You
know, so and any anything else coming up
to check out for everybody to know?
>> Thank you. First of all, if you don't
take you guys are busy, right? But you
took the time to come here and you had
no idea that my podcasts are aired with
a million subscribers and gone Emirates
Airlines with a million views a week.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So if you don't step out that
comfort zone, if you don't go out there
and take action, things like this don't
happen.
>> I love it.
>> Finally, 75% of my followers are women.
So you think gladiators, you think it's
macho men killing people, right?
Unfortunately, the men have egos. They
don't need to learn. So what I suggest
is kill the ego, the viewers, and listen
from people who've done it, been there,
got the t-shirt. You save yourself the
health. You save tens of years of
heartache. Learn from the masters.
>> I love it.
>> That's what I would say. With that being
said, we'll see you guys in the next
episode.
