one of the biggest real estate experts
in the entire country right now, Ari
Rastagar. He's quickly built a
multibillion dollar real estate
portfolio. And correct me if I'm wrong,
Ari, you are building the tallest
building in Dallas right now. Pretty
close. What do you think the average
person doesn't understand about failure?
That failure is a bad thing. That's what
I didn't understand. You're a failure,
Ari. You're a failure. I look in the
mirror, you're damn right I'm a failure,
and that's why I'm still here. And I
wrote myself a check for a billion
dollars. I carried it around for almost
15 years every single day. Having a
billion dollar valuation or a billion
dollar platform is not a billion dollars
in your checking account. There's levels
to how this works.
>> What is something from your days as a
lawyer that you've taken into your firm?
Now,
>> all of business is a contract. All
relationships are a covenant, which is
another word for a contract.
Understanding the law helps you
understand order. All right. If me and
you were to pass away and die tomorrow
and you could leave one more guiding
principle with the younger generation,
what would that be?
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James. I'm here with Jack
and we are out in Austin, Texas with an
incredible guest for you all. One of the
biggest real estate experts in the
entire country right now, Ari Rastagar.
He's quickly built a multibillion dollar
real estate portfolio buying buildings
and now he's shaping entire skylines.
And correct me if I'm wrong, Ari, you
are building the tallest building in
Dallas right now.
>> Pretty close.
>> Pretty close in Uptown for sure where
the new uh where the new stock exchange
is going. Absolutely.
>> But you didn't start there. We were
talking about it before a couple years
ago, man. You were working at Johnny
Rocket.
>> Yeah, it wasn't. It feels about 15
minutes ago.
Where I want to get started today is I
want you to take us back to a
conversation that you had when you were
a young kid and I want I want to set the
scene. You're driving around downtown
Dallas with your I believe your granddad
and you're having a conversation with
him and you're telling him, "You know
what, grandpa? I'm I'm going to be a
doctor one day and your grandpa looks at
you and he goes, "Son, you're not going
to be a doctor. We're in America right
now. You're going to be a businessman."
What impact did that conversation have
on you for the rest of your life and
where you are today building a
multi-billion dollar company? It's a
huge one because I wanted to I wanted to
be like my grandpa. He was um one of the
sha Iran's medical doctors and you know
like the story of a lot of Iranian
Americans you know we weren't of the
with the current regime so they had to
leave everything behind and so part of I
think my life story was growing up a few
feet from fame like hearing these
stories of um you know of of the riches
and the power and the culture of Iran
but you know not having the money here
and growing up with a with a single dad
in Alice, moving to Highland Park in
Dallas, which is the richest
neighborhood in Texas, but being kind of
the poorest kid uh in the richest
neighborhood. So, my life had this like
proximity to to this wealth and success,
but um it hadn't translated into um into
my pockets. But you're right, you know,
I I wanted to be like him. I said,
"Look, I I want wanted to be a doctor."
He said, "Look, we're in we're in
America. You know, this is this is
basically in Farsy something like this
is corporate America. You're going to be
a businessman." I'm like, "What the hell
is a businessman?" like I don't. And my
grandpa says it and we look out the
window and he's trying to I guess
explain to me. He says, "You see all
these buildings?"
Yeah. Like one day you're going to own
them all.
Own them all? Like 50 cents in my
pocket. But um you know, he it
definitely had a had a had a huge
impact. And my father um you know,
instilled a lot of these stories in me
very very early on. And one of the most
impactful things, you know, from there
is when my dad gave me the book, Think
and Grow Rich. And I remember being like
so annoyed. I'm like, I don't want I was
like 13, 14 years old. He's like, you
need to stick Iranian. You have to read
this book. I was like, okay. So, I
remember going up and reading through it
and getting a chapter in and going down
and telling my dad like thoughts are
things like what does that mean? and and
going through this book became so much
of like a a syllabus for the rest of my
life where still to this day um I
revisit that concept because I I tell
people all the time like if you don't
know where you're going first like how
are you going to know when you got there
and if you don't know where you're going
it's like telling the GPS system I want
to go eat that's not a destination like
you need a place something to write and
having that um having that syllabus and
having that guide um was a huge guiding
part of my life and that heritage and
the you know Iranian culture growing up
here and I speak a few languages
fluently but you know I I always I still
kind of think in Farsy and that part
from my grandpa and my granddad was a
massive massive shift.
>> You brought up how you grew up and you
spent some time in Highland Park but you
were kind of one of the poor families
that lived there.
>> Absolutely. There's a saying that we
love at the school of hard knocks which
is that you can only grow to what you're
exposed to at an early age being around
you mentioned the proximity. How
important was that for you growing up to
kind of realize what was possible?
Seeing Rolls-Royces driving by the vast
amounts of wealth that's actually out
there. Did that in the back of your mind
always have an effect on you as you got
older because you knew it was possible?
>> Um
yes. And I I think there's two sides to
it because I think so much of any type
of success and I've come to
differentiate
success and what I think a life of like
fulfillment is cuz success is very much
a science like there there's a there's a
curriculum that you can be it's it's
more of a math formula to become
successful but living a meaningful life
um is an art you know so there's a
difference to it and so when you grow up
close to something, you feel the void.
You can feel the difference. So that
creates when you don't have emotional
fortitude. And I'm a big believer in
emotional fitness, you know, getting to
a place where you get this psychological
attack cuz before we have this, you
know, 2 million year old reptilian brain
that was trained to keep us away from,
you know, problems and it was like a
actual lion was going to jump out and
kill you. But now it's a, you know, it's
a text message from somebody or it's a
email or it's a lawsuit or, you know,
something that scares the [ __ ] out of
you. But it's not the same physical
survival mechanism.
So at that early at those early ages, I
certainly didn't have the emotional
resilience to deal with that level of
inadequacy of feeling, you know, that I
didn't have something, feeling I had a
really bad speech impediment growing up
and had to go to seven years of speech
therapy, you know, to learn how to talk.
I I stuttered. I have this lisp. At the
beginning it just felt like a problem.
It felt like a curse and you know over
time it started to unravel into a
blessing. And I think a lot about um you
know the two sides of the coin. You know
knowing you know sorrow you know joy and
sorrow are two sides of the same coin.
Like you if there wasn't two you
wouldn't know the other one. And so it
took a lot of time, a lot of anger, a
lot of sadness, a lot of um labels from
you know pseudo doctors of you know ADD
or you know you're depressed, you're and
all these things to start to unravel the
gift that was what I was in fact very
much exposed to. But that took there was
a long journey to get to the place to
find that kernel of what it actually was
to find that that you know that problem
that I saw was a gift that I could grow
from. Um but at the time I had no idea.
It was just pure pain. It was just pure
inadequacy. It was feeling very
self-conscious that you know that took a
lot of time to unravel. And um but in
hindsight yes it was one of the greatest
smartest things my father ever did. um
because he went to law school a little
bit later in life, had a student housing
deal with SMU, which is across the
street, so we could live in the Highland
Park School District. And in hindsight,
I think it was, you know, one of the
greatest gifts he ever gave me.
>> And before we sat down to start
recording the podcast, uh you mentioned
you're coming up on 20 year anniversary
of starting your firm.
>> 11 years.
>> 11 years. 11 years. Um and you know, you
were mentioning, man, I feel like I was
at Johnny Rockets just 15 minutes ago.
And so like how do you go from working
at Johnny Rockets to I believe you went
to law school, a lawyer, right, and then
starting a multi-billion dollar company?
How does that happen?
>> I saw Bill Gates early in my career
talk. And one thing I love so much about
you guys is you've given such a blessing
to people to be able to have that
exposure to these, you know, well, I'm a
big reader. I was an English literature
major. Okay. Um, and so my mentors
growing up and you know I'm kind of I
sit on the someone told me the other day
that I'm not the oldest millennial. I'm
like a zelennial or zenial some other
term where I grew up in an analog age
and um but also in a digital age. So my
mentors were in books and I wish at that
time this gift that you all have given
to the world of people being able to see
these brilliant minds and hear them and
be close to them and um and learn from
them I admire tremendously and one thing
that I heard from one of these you know
mentors from afar you know and in and
Mr. Gates is we dramatically
overestimate what we can do in a year,
but we dramatically underestimate what
we can do in a decade or two or three or
four. And I say that to where it's
amazing what happens with consistency
and just compound effects. So, I was
working at Johnny Rockets when I was in
high school and um again, it was a it it
was a great job. I got to keep my tips.
Um, but it was again back to a it
created this this hunger I think because
it was also in North Park Mall where all
the Highland Park kids came and so I
kind of had this moment of thinking I'm
here but um it gave me something that I
don't think you can buy and which I
think is a gift and that's hunger you
know hunger I think is one of the most
important attributes to achieve anything
you know meaningful in life and being
there making you know $2.86 86 cents an
hour and being able to keep my keep my
tips. I had this book and I had this
vision to be able to think that life
could be better. And by setting my first
goal that really my dad set for me was
law school. It was being able to have
some place that I knew I was going. And
the minute I knew I was going to go to
law school, um I was a terrible student
in high school. So I had to go to two
community colleges before I even got
into Texas A&M. I did graduate top of my
class.
But then I had then I studied in Mexico,
did a study abroad and went to law
school. But my point is having that
first meaningful goal that appeared to
be long-term of law school and not
knowing anything beyond that because a
lot of times we have we look to these
grandiose goals and that's like a
reverse form of procrastination. It's
another way to make us feel bad about
ourselves. But if we can set goals um
that are that are meaningful enough that
we can achieve then we can grow on them
because a lot of times the next goal
hasn't even revealed itself because you
have to invent yourself to a certain
level and that new person you invented
will invent what the next goal is. So
until you've got to that next level, you
don't even have a concept what the next
one is. So by having law school in front
of me, um that gave me a place to go.
And in fact, while in law school, I
borrowed $3,000 to buy a little lot um
in Spring Branch, Texas, just out of San
Antonio, um and convinced a local de
local developer to help me build this
house. And we built it for $80,000, sold
it for $115,000.
And it gave me my first taste of taking
something that was in my mind and then
seeing it on paper. And there's, you
know, these are back to that science of
success. Same thing goes with writing
your goals. And I tell um I tell people
all the time who have goals and have
dreams and that's great, but difference
between a goal and a dream is is it
written down? And the analogy for real
estate is very beautiful because then
you have a blueprint. And so you have
this first blueprint and you envision it
and you go measure it and you go see it.
You're standing on this land and you see
this dream that you have. Then all of a
sudden it it is manifested or created
into something. That was the moment that
connected Johnny Rockets to Double
Dave's Pizza, which was through college.
And the reason I worked at Double Daves
is because I got free pizza. And so my
college roommate and I, who is who is,
you know, my wrestling partner, um, in
high in high school, you know, we, you
know, that we just basically lived off
pizza because I worked there free. I got
to collect, keep my tips. And that first
construction piece literally showed me
that I could construct myself. It
connected the first dot cuz you know you
it's hard to connect the dots going
forward but you learn to um over time
but that created this one pocket like
that chapter so to speak was closed. And
then when law school started to
accelerate the bar exam, um finished
another chapter unraveled, then I
thought, well, I remember sitting to
myself, well, if I built one,
maybe we could build 10, maybe we can
build a thousand. And then I started to
think about my grandpa. I started think
about those buildings. I was like, hm, a
house is basic. It's like 20 houses on
top of each other, but it's just a
blueprint, right? It's just an idea. And
you know, and you hear these things a
lot. And cliches are cliches for a
reason because there's an element of
truth. And so starting to lay that
blueprint, starting to write out where I
saw myself going, creating a
destination. Um, and I wrote myself a
check for a billion dollars
when I was 23 years old. Personal check
for a billion dollars from me to me. And
I carried it around for almost 15 years
every single day. And as you talk to the
people that you that you talk with, and
as I said, I love watching, you know,
watching what you guys do. It's having a
billion dollar valuation or a billion
dollar platform is not a billion dollars
in your checky account. You know,
there's levels to, you know, how this
works.
>> I I I love that story about the check
carrying it around cuz it I I mean, you
probably learned that in Think and Grow
Rich. I did just And uh you know, the
actor Jim Carrey, he said that he wrote
himself like a $10 million sheet and
that's how much he made on Dumb and
Dumber. And I'll show you this. My goal
someday is to uh
>> [ __ ] go.
>> My goal someday is to I'm I'm a big
Dodgers fan, big baseball guy. And so
what I have in here is my first Dodgers
ticket to remind me that's like my thing
for when I buy the Dodgers someday. So
yeah,
>> and I'll tell you something, a person
that does that,
>> I would not bet against.
>> Yeah. You know,
>> every day it's Think about it. every day
you think about and and again back to
the point I've done a lot of work um a
lot of work with Tony Robbins who I
love. I saw you all interviewed the
other day. Lucky you. Shout out to Tony
Robbins. Um I think I did my first
in-person seminar and I've done a dozen
probably. Matter of fact, I did another
one virtually between us um like a month
ago. Um so the the the journey never
stops. By the way, you know, the um the
the the the scaling is it needs to be
insatiable, but you know, he said it in
a certain way of you know, you know,
energy goes where focus is, you know,
and and then Dr. Joe Despensza, who I've
done a lot of his meditation retreats,
I'm sure you've seen him before, has
really calculated and measured what
happens when we focus on something, what
happens in our heart, what happens in
our mind. in these concepts of mysticism
and woo woo meditation. Incidentally,
Jim is a big meditation guy, too. I
learned about meditation from Ray Dalio.
Um, I love Ray. I read his principles
before it was even a book. He used to
publish it on his website. You could
download it. And I saved up my money to
go to a um to go to a little conference
that he was speaking at. and I waited
out front and got to the front row and
he answered some questions for some
people walking up and um I got to ask
him like in person back to that being
exposed um you know is there one thing
like what's one thing that you would
have someone learn who wanted to be an
entrepreneur and he blew me the [ __ ]
away. He goes meditate
like
huh meditate?
Okay. Okay. Immediately went and signed
up for a transcendental meditation
course and now major and I have been
through you know all the advanced
programs and become sidas and meditation
been you know a huge part. I went to
another conference to see him to thank
him and I did waited in line again 3
years later stood in line and got to see
him and said I just wanted to say thank
you for meditation. He goes you meditate
every day. I go yeah he goes it's good
isn't it?
I thought if Ray Dalio, the numbers
business guru of the world, um
meditation is something to uh to pay
attention to. But Dr. Joe has learned
has taught how to measure what's
actually happening. So when we go to
create the life that we want to create,
can we put ourselves in a physical state
that we are full of gratitude that we're
full of um hope, we're full of optimism,
and then write the goals and then feel
the goals and then be able to go small
to go big. You know, one of the one of
the myriad of mistakes that I've made
is, you know, thinking just of the
longer term instead of really watching
the ball. And I'm not a golfer, but you
know, golfers like they look down the
fairway, you know, this whatever, and
the ball's this big, you know, and they
sit and they keep the head down. You
keep your head down, you hit the ball.
And I think life and business certainly
has that same objective is like do the
thing that's right in front of you. And
in a world that's changing this fast,
this quickly, I ascribe to the 12week
year concept of, you know, I don't plan
our budgets or our things beyond, you
know, 12 weeks of what I'm going to do,
my scheduling, my time, my core
objectives. The maximum is 12 weeks. And
the things that we buy and the things we
build, we think of them in terms of we'd
want to own them forever. You know,
clearly, you know, we sell them to
monetize for our investors that are
public pension plans, insurance
companies, etc. Um, but having balancing
the long-term but keeping action in the
most present sense possible.
>> I wanted to go back to when you
mentioned you borrowed $3,000 when you
were in law school. I did.
>> What had inspired you to actually go out
and kind of get that loan to get that
first $3,000 to get the lot and put your
first property on there?
>> It's a great question. I um where St.
Mary's University is, where my law
school is, I was living a little bit
outside of the cities. As I said, in
Spring Ranch, I actually developed the
house next door to where I was living is
the other part. So, I could be on the
site at 5:00 in the morning and I could
get to school and get back and forth.
But this is uh the year will tell you
what was going on. But it was this was
2007.
So, I was driving back and forth to
school and I'd see like a sign for sale
and by the time I was coming home, sold
for sale, sold, sold. And I just and I
kept seeing the same name, you know,
Dugan Construction. And Mitch Dugan,
who's still a friend of mine today, is
the one that um helped me with it. But I
kept seeing sold, bought, sold, bought,
sold, bought, sold. And back to that
point of, you know, I think thinking
about what my grandpa said and thinking
about me growing up, real estate just
meant wealth. Like I didn't even know
like I remember thinking you know when
one of my mentors that gave me um my
first big break to start my first big
company was an entertainment company um
called Capital Entertainment is one of
the most you know decorated finance
years in in New York and he'd come down
to um to Dallas to see his cousin my
wrestling coach that made that intro.
And I remember he's like this is a Wall
Street guy and I didn't even know Wall
Street was a street. I just thought it
meant rich people. like I didn't even
know what I didn't even know what I what
I um what I didn't know but what I did
remember was the kind of rich dad poor
dad I just thought real estate real
estate means wealthy and if you look at
the richest families you know certainly
for the last you know 3 or 4 thousand
years and I think the future um that's
going to change a little bit as the
values of people change and the values
that individuals have around buying
homes and you know people are investing
more in their cameras um and their
digital social circles more than they
are maybe in the bricks and mortar.
That's another discussion. Um,
but seeing that it was going back and
forth, I thought that maybe um maybe I
could do it and this would be my entree
into what I thought wealth even meant.
So, just walking into that realm of um
of wealth could be was having the idea
and um and I also used my scholarship
money which I don't think was entirely
allowed um but I did as well to buy that
first lot. Did you ever end up
practicing law?
>> I did. I absolutely did. I I'll tell you
I'll tell you a funny story. So, I
passed the bar. Well, actually, a little
bit before that. Um, it was the first
year I was studying for the bar. I was
living on major's couch and studying for
the bar. He paid for my prep course to
do barber, which is the whatever. So, I
was studying at SMU and it was the first
year that you could do the bar exam on a
computer, like on a laptop, and you put
it on a little USB and you had to upload
it.
So,
finished the bar,
major picked me up, and we went to this
little steakhouse in downtown Dallas and
which was really close to his little
loft where he lived. And you had to
upload the test before 5:00. And if you
didn't, you automatically failed.
So sitting there and in the middle of
eating, it's like 4:52. Major's like,
"I'm so glad you uploaded your test
before we came to eat. You just kind of
relax." And I guess the look on my face
and being just pale and about to die of
fear, he realized I hadn't turned it in.
So threw money out of his pocket. We go
sprinting down downtown, go in the
house, and I turned it in at exactly
49
and 27 seconds. And 27 is my lucky
number. Anybody that knows me know that.
or otherwise I would have completely
failed the bar. Um, so passed the bar
luckily and I was working as a criminal
defense attorney and I clerked during
law school and working for my dad and
working for another very famous lawyer
in Dallas. And I had sitted on so many
felony jury trials that the the Dallas
County waved the 10-year experience for
me to get on the wheel, which means that
if you don't have enough money, you're
indigent to get a um um a courtappointed
lawyer. They'll get private lawyers and
they'll pay you a little something, 500
bucks or something to represent people.
So I ended up working on 70 felony cases
in my first year. This is an attorney.
>> Wow.
>> Think about that. And in fact, you're
supposed to go get sworn in for the bar,
and it's a ceremony, but it's partly
ceremonial. And my boss had a 2 kilo of
cocaine drug case, defense case, and he
asked me, he's like, "Just," he passed
the bar, just come with me to court. And
the judge asked me like, "Have you been
sworn? Did you have your bar card?" I
was like, "Yeah, but I haven't been
sworn in." And he says, "I've always
wanted to swear somebody in." So
literally a few days after I passed, he
swore me in right there in the middle of
the court, I sat down in second chair
and we got to question the witnesses and
we walked him. But um yes, so I
definitely did. And one day when I was
sitting in my office, I get a call say,
you know, Arya, can you can you come up
to my office?
So I come in, there's these two huge
guys standing in front of his desk and
he's, you know,
John is a is a Texas guy, wears a black
Stson, you know, wears a blue bion tie
and crocodile boots and, you know, keeps
his pistol like on his desk. These huge
guys are standing in the thing and he's
sitting there looking and the guy turns
around and looks at me. Huge black guys.
Goes, "Do you know who LeBron James is?"
Well, this is 2009.
What
do I Yes. I Because he has no idea, by
the way.
He's like, "Well, NBA Allstar is here in
Dallas and you know, we did this thing
and
you know, we were going to do a party
after and we have this rapper coming and
this thing and the guy lost his liquor
license and we want to sue him." I'm
thinking, "Sue him?" Like, "So, you're
here? You want to hire us to go sue
these people?" And like, "Okay, well,
don't you want to do the party?"
He's like, "Well, yeah, but there's
nowhere to go. we, you know, we can't do
it. I was like, well, what if, you know,
what if we found a place and would you
have do it? And so, long story made
long, we found them another venue. You
know, the party went off without a
hitch. And this rapper that I never
heard of, he's like this, you know, he's
apparently really good friends with
LeBron. And the guy told me I'd pay
LeBron the the cash for it and pay this
guy and, you know, you know, was raised
on hip-hop. And I'm like, just who's the
guy? He's like, he's from Canada. I was
like, from Canada? But what the [ __ ]
like people rap in Canada. Like what is
this? And he's like, "Yeah, the guy's
name is Drake." I was like, "Okay." And
so I gave him the money and like 3
months later we're hearing these songs
on the radio and whatever. And that
incident launched um our business, our
Capital A Entertainment um down the
road, which ended up being parties of
the Super Bowl and NBA All-Star and
everything the next day. But it all came
from practicing law. And and on on the
flip side, what is something from your
days as a lawyer that you've taken into
your firm now running real estate other
than contracts?
>> To add on to that too, a lot of people
go into business don't realize probably
you had a very competitive advantage
because you knew the ins and outs of a
lot of things about the law that could
be applicable to you in in your life.
Right now, Grant, I don't think you were
necessarily studying to practice real
estate law, but you probably still
learned a lot of valuable skills from
that. Could you touch on that?
>> Absolutely.
Well, look, all of business is a
contract. All relationships
are a covenant, which is another word
for a contract. You know, you promise to
do something, they promise to do
something, you act. So, understanding
the law helps you understand order.
Okay? And it also helps you understand
um consideration, which is value in some
regard. And that can be a promise, that
can be an act, that can be money. and
all of real estate is contracts. Okay?
And so, yes, it's a huge huge huge
advantage. But the way a lawyer's mind
is trained um is for things to go wrong.
So, an entrepreneur is trained for
things that could go right. So, you end
up having two little folks that sit up
in your head telling you different
things. So, again, just like anything,
there's two sides to it. But what it
helped me with more than anything on the
real estate side and the firm is very
much evolving you know to becoming a
full-ervice investment firm. Um just
like you see KKR Blackstone this is the
path of you start one vertical and so
you know we're moving into a realm where
we're expanding our investment verticals
and all things that we're doing but real
estate is the foundation without being
too kitschy. Um, but one of the things
that we've done from a strategic
standpoint is around zoning and
entitlements. And so if you look at a
piece of, you know, a large piece of
land, like, you know, you know about the
development we're doing in Kyle, it's a,
you know, 318 acre site. And when we
first bought it, it was just a
agricultural
zoning. And so you, you know, you drive
through parts of New York, there's
height. you get down into, you know,
lower um downtown, there's, you know,
these are all zoning and entitlement
either restrictions or abilities,
however you want to look at it. But law
at its core is supposed to be to protect
the needs of a community or society for
any certain point in time. That's what
the law is. Okay? Take the Bill of
Rights, you take the Constitution, and
it's supposed to reflect the needs of a
society. Okay. So, if you zoom you zoom
in a little bit and you say, "Okay, how
what does that have to do with zoning?"
Well, that means that if a city like
Kyle that in 2009 had 5,000 people, the
needs of that society was a farm. If the
needs of that society are evolving, it's
the old Wayne Gret Wayne Gretzky of, you
know, skate where the puck is going. And
so as a real estate developer from that
standpoint, you need to anticipate to
some regard, you know, if you're getting
in the market right where the needs are
at that moment, you're too late. So
there's a certain amount of anticipation
based upon population growth or
a slew of metrics because real estate is
a people business at the end of the day.
So understanding human psychology is a
profound amount about understanding what
happens with, you know, with real
estate. I always people say, you know,
we're building houses. I was like, you
see houses, I see homes. and um multif
family. We've joked we want to put
family back in multif family and you
know put unity back in community. And so
when you look at this land you say this
is our this is agriculture. Well if I
have a strong level of conviction that
the needs of Kyle were going to shift. I
want to change the law. So advocating to
city council and saying well we think
there needs to be houses here. It's been
a farm and we actually think there needs
to be a school here. We think there
needs to be apartments.
That's that's a legal exercise. That's
petitioning for your case. That's
explaining the merits of how this is a
benefit to society. This is benefiting
what's going to happen for the city. And
then you go to the council. You meet
with all the the folks. And so you have
the ability to argue your case for lack
of a better for the betterment of the
enhancement of what that community is in
an ideal sense. And I think great
investing is about adding value. And I
think investing in relationships,
investing in your health, adding more
value than anybody else. And at the
beginning, you know, adding more value
than you're paid for. And I think that's
one of the, you know, the nuances um
that I I kind of learned the hard way
is, you know, you want to get paid, but
if you add more value than anybody, it's
the at the beginning, getting paid as a
by, you know, you'll get paid
ultimately. And so that part of it of
being able to read the law and
understand it became this cornerstone of
what our specialty is a firm. Although
we have invested in 38 cities, 13
states, seven different asset classes.
The reason is because we've looked
through this zoning, entitlement, this
use, um, and what that means. And some
of the things that I'm most proud about,
um, is being able to look at a city,
look at a community, look at a
neighborhood, and think, hm, like what
could make this better? Where what
could, you know, make this something
that
can house the future of the city, you
know, not the past. And we like to say,
you know, we honor the past while we
build the future.
>> I love that. The first property, right,
was one that you built, ended up being
$80,000, sold it for $15,000. $15,000
was the sale price for that. Then you
make the decision that, hey, I could do
one of these, I could do 10, and
eventually you kind of come to the
realization to go all in on real estate,
residential, commercial, now you're
doing everything. I want to talk about
how you built the vertically integrated
business. At what point did you realize
that rather than just kind of focusing
on one thing that you could actually add
vertical brands or add vertical parts to
the investment firm and how important
has that been to you scaling out to the
multi-billion dollar company you are
now?
>> I think desperation is the word that
comes to mind first because people
change um you want to say that people
change because they have some great idea
and they feel super inspired but in my
in my experience motivation and
inspiration runs out very very quickly.
you know, my first big business that um
or my attempt at big business was, you
know, a complete disaster for a bunch of
different reasons. An ice storm hit one
of the parties in Dallas, Legionnaire's
disease broke out at the Playboy Mansion
and all these unforeseen things kind of
happened and real estate, the
relationships that I had built, real
estate was the closest thing of anything
that I knew. So I was I I wish I could
say that it was some design, you know,
um you know, my you know, my my very
close Jewish friends, I was saying that
I love so much, man plans, God laughs.
And so in this moment, it was I took
inventory after kind of the business
didn't work. I didn't know where to go.
I was in New York City and as I said,
one of my mentors was big into real
estate and a lot of the guys that had
invested in that business were real
estate guys and I went into it because I
needed a job and then being close to it.
Um, one of the groups that, you know, we
were working for was based here in
Austin when Austin was starting to take
the boom and I'm born and raised in
Austin. So, I kind of got pulled into it
without a dis like without something
that I really thought was what I was
supposed to do. And I didn't really
connect the dots until later. And so, I
started um to raise capital for other
people's deals. And I didn't really know
enough rich people. So, I used to sit at
the bar at this Italian restaurant in
New York City called Il Molino. And I
got to know the bartender. And his name
was Elvis. He's gone. I was actually
there a couple weeks ago. the matra is
still my friend, you know, after all
these years. And I'd give him a hundred
bucks every time some rich person would
come to the bar and he would call me and
I'd rush over there and see if I could
talk with them. And so I would I would
raise money through like an LLC and
invest in these different deals. So the
way we hit the scope of 38 cities, 13
all this early was finding the best
operators in the world or that I could
find around different asset classes and
putting money with them. And once those
started to sell and we made money, all
of a sudden I was like, "Oh, well, we
have money. We have this thing. We're in
Austin." Then we started to buy Austin.
And I started to do all the work and
started to do all these things and
working without a a strategy of
delegation
pushing my health to an edge that was
wildly uncomfortable. And I was working
crazy. just just not a good not a good
strategy of wearing every different hat
>> because you do you do biohacking now is
that correct
>> I do um and and the thing about
biohacking or the the the term
it's a cute term
but if you don't have health
you don't have anything you know and
it's really and again back to that
cliched point Ralph Walder Emerson said
health is wealth and so this is an
investment
and and I learned it the hard way. And
my doctor, Dr. Jacob Rosenstein, who's
one of my clients for many years, one of
the most beautiful, brilliant, I mean,
he's a spinal neurosurgeon. He's not
some natural p, you know, he's a, you
know, he's a serious dude that figured
out health and wellness and vitamins.
And early in my career around that time,
um, you know, we sat down and, you know,
he said, um, you know, I'm I like what
you're doing. I'll invest with you. Not
an insignificant amount.
He said, "But I um do you feel okay?"
What do you What do you mean it's just
No, you just
you have dark circles under your eyes.
You know, you're you feel okay. I like
honestly
not really. So, he's like, "I'll tell
you what. I'll invest with you, but I
want to see your blood."
See my blood? I ended up writing the the
prologue to his book called Defy Aging.
Um, and I recommend anybody to read this
book. It's a nononsense. I mean, this is
a um, you know, his mother, Dr. Jacob
Rosenstein's mother is will celebrate
her 100th birthday this year and was a
um, Holocaust survivor. I mean, so the
life and journey was top of his class
was John's Hopkins. Top of his class,
Johns Hopkins Medical School. One of the
most, like I said, I there's no way for
me to speak higher of this man. He's
based in um in Dallas and he has his own
clinic called Southwest Age Management
that's so reasonably priced too by the
way. Like I see some of the other
pricings of different biohackers or
whatever and it's absurd compared to
what he does. So he says, you know,
check my blood and he did and my
testosterone level was like 140, which
is like,
you know, stuff maybe almost didn't work
if you know what I mean. And cholesterol
was super high, estrogen levels, I was
it was a nightmare. And I I was
relatively thin. Um, you know, I didn't,
you know, didn't think anything was too
wrong. And and he helped me optimize it.
And this
>> Did they get to the root of what caused
that?
>> Yeah. Eating like [ __ ] not sleeping
enough, and not taking the proper
neutrauticals. Like, here's the thing
about any type of success.
It is so much simpler than anybody
cares to admit. And the people that tell
you it's not are selling you something.
Plain and simple. The body is a very,
you know, look, the complicated parts of
it, fine. But there's certain vitamins
and minerals that the body needs and all
the other add-on components, you know, I
don't know, ashwagandha, this, that, and
the other. Fine. I take I take about 200
supplements a day. Um, and to me, that's
the that's a luxury. Like I'm a pretty
simple guy, but that's one of the great
luxuries of being able to you know have
you know your finances someone in order
is to be able to do that. Um
but you know the your vitamin D, your
testosterone, your estrogen, your
there's basic vitamins and minerals and
hormones that the body needs. And you
know he you know one of the analogies
that you know he gave is you know your
body is like an orchestra the cellos and
the violins you know and sometimes you
say you know I need a little more of
this a little bit less of this and you
find this harmony and he's the greatest
conductor in the world and so and I
found that by doing those things and
taking the proper neutrauticals
um doing you know testing doing a food
sensitivity test and again dude I go to
Costco and I had a big thing of salmon.
Like my the way that I eat is so it's so
boring. And saying it's expensive is
absurd. Like I can buy a pack of 30
salmon, wild caught salmon at Costco for
like 20 bucks, get a bunch of sweet
potatoes,
you know, and I eat basically sweet
potatoes, egg whites, salmon, chicken
thigh,
just militant, like just meal prepping
them. It's very simple. Yes, there's a
maybe a shake or something like that,
but this is not rocket science by any
stretch. the imagination but by cutting
out sugar you know cutting out you know
other stuff that I shouldn't be you know
consuming both physically and
emotionally because you know what you're
consuming also to the mind
>> so stress takes a toll
>> stress takes a toll but stress is also
cortisol too so you know you know my
yoga teacher who I love so much you know
in New York used to say you know you can
use your mind to change your body and
Dr. Joe Dispenser will tell you, Pink
and Grow Rich will tell you that, but
you can always also use your body to
change your mind.
Meaning that if you have these things
where you're not feeling well, let's
leave it at that. And I wasn't feeling
well. I was working hard, but I didn't
feel good inside. And I had a bunch of
other things that
one would have thought or diagnosed as
emotional issues, but in fact, they were
physiological. So the minute I started
taking my vitamins, I stopped eating
junk. I started moving my body a little
bit more. As my physical blood work got
better, I started to feel better. And
when I started to feel better, I got
more energy. When I got more energy, I
worked better. I made better decisions.
My my own emotional temperament
um started to change. And I think as
entrepreneurs, we are an extension of
our business. So the better you feel,
the better you're going to work, the
better you're going to treat people.
When you when your heart is healthy,
literally,
you're more empathetic.
And it was such an easy way when there's
chaos around you everywhere to control
what you put in your mouth. So some of
the toughest times, you know, in
business and these last 5 years in real
estate are very difficult years. Global
pandemics, you know, rates hiking 500
basis points. Um, sometimes the only
thing you can control is what you put in
your mouth. And I've used that as a way
to keep myself sound when things are
falling apart all around me.
>> It's okay. At least control what you can
control.
>> Yeah. Control what you can control and
know that there's a little element of
grace in what you can't and you kind of
sometimes the move is making not making
a move. But I can control moving my
body. I can control closing my eyes for
20 minutes to find a place. I can
control putting things in my mouth. And
if if you know, if you are blessed
enough to, you know, have all your
limbs, to have your faculties, you know,
to be in the great country of Texas, um
or a place where you have liberty, these
are things where you can get some salmon
from Costco, bro. Like you can you can
boil some sweet potatoes. You can close
your eyes and meditate for a second. You
can go for a little brisk walk or a
little jog. This is effectively free.
Like there's some fancy membership some
you don't need to go to the Himalayas to
medit like you you can you know your
life is your initiation you know and you
can do these things um you know just at
your house and it doesn't take much
effort so to speak but if you think of
like asymmetrical investing like limit
the downside and maximize the upside I
can think of no better investment on the
earth than what you eat the vitamins you
take and closing your eyes and finding a
little emotional calmness. It
>> It's so true. And anybody that wants to
be a high performer, when they make that
switch to realizing it's it's like if
you're an F1 driver, you want to win the
race. Um but you're fueling the car with
with crap. You're you're not using the
top premier. Like every you know,
championship F1 driver is not going to
put standard regular oil in their car.
And you know, the sleep aspect, it's
like your pit crew. If you stop for a
rest and to interchange and recover,
it's like you have Joe Schmo fixing your
tire instead of a professional. So, as
an entrepreneur, anybody trying to be a
high performer, I I couldn't agree more.
And I want to talk about the Texas Point
for a second. You're building the
tallest building in Dallas right now.
Tell me a little bit about that project.
How did it get started and and what what
what's going on with with that there?
Well,
it started about 20 years ago and I
didn't know that it started when it
started. Okay.
So, around that Double Dave's Pizza
Community College time, Major um who's
my best friend since we were in seventh
grade and the chief of staff of our firm
um had got went to UT. He was a Fiji at
UT. I went to Texas A&M
and one of our other, you know, very
close friends, um, TJ Frank, who's a,
you know, one of the biggest, you know,
residential brokers in Dallas, was at
SMU in Dallas. And so one weekend, you
know, we had decided, um, you know, to
kind of get together in Dallas, you
know, whatever, and, you know, go out
and go cause some trouble, which, you
know, you're supposed to do, I think, in
some regard. And in Dallas, there wasn't
many nightclubs, you know, at that time.
And we didn't really have much money to
go anywhere too fancy. This is before
bottle service, by the way, and any of
that stuff. You know, this was like $2
kamicazi shot kind of days. I'm aging
myself. McKini Avenue is like the Park
Avenue of Dallas. Okay? And if you've
heard a lot about the new Texas Stock
Exchange and New York Stock Exchange
moving to Dallas, Goldman Sachs building
their second largest office in the
world, um, Bank of America, um, building
their new tower, keeping their
headquarters in Dallas, is all in this
little corridor called Uptown.
>> So Dallas is becoming Wall Street.
>> Yall Street.
>> Yall Street.
>> Y'all Street, baby. Um,
yes, it is. And it's probably one of the
most impactful quantum shifts in global
economics that we will see in our
lifetime. Um, for the New York Stock
Exchange to leave Chicago
and come to Dallas, Texas,
that should tell you something.
>> Why Why do people want to come to
Dallas?
>> Well, I think there's a lot of reasons.
one,
it's in Texas. Let's start with that.
And Texas has done a fantastic job of
creating a businessfriendly environment.
It's central in the United States. You
can get to um LA, Miami, New York and
under three hours each way.
The climate is in the sunb belt. It's a
fair weather climate area. The cost of
living on an average basis in the United
States for major metropolitan cities is
one of the most affordable. There's a
confluence of things and including um no
state income taxes which people like.
It's businessfriendly.
The liberties that are afforded in Texas
as well um
are much higher than a lot of other
states. you if you look at um and people
everybody has opinions when it comes to
politics
I I stay out of politics you know myself
I think there's other patriots that can
handle that um you know over my dead
body for me personally if you know what
I mean but all of these things together
and the climate makes a big deal too is
one and then the other part from a city
planning standpoint the players of
Dallas created Metropolis one of the
largest airports in the entire world.
DFW, American Airlines headquarters.
All of these things together
create a highway system, a water system,
a power grid that's designed
for growth. It's a sprawled metroplex
that could actually house comfortably
the most populated city in the United
States of America. Okay, Austin, as an
example, is a town on steroids.
Nobody thought Austin, this sleepy
little hippie town, would become this
booming tech hub. Tesla would move their
headquarters. So the so the highway
systems aren't designed for that many
people. Dallas is okay.
All of that together and a very young
educated workforce. So Goldman Sachs has
had an office there since the 60s,
believe it or not. JP Morgan's had one
of their largest offices there for many
years, which is not Bank of America's um
headquarters has been there. So, all of
these have laid the foundation for what
Dallas can actually become as people get
priced out of, you know, the New Yorks,
get priced out of the Miami, get priced
out of, you know, parts of, you know,
California, etc.
And that's why you're seeing these
things start to um start to formulate.
So,
if you go back 20 years, we met this
weekend, that weekend, and we wanted to
go to this nightclub called Glass, okay?
Had a pool on the roof. It's right on
McKini Avenue
and right across the street, literally
from where Goldman and the stock
exchange are were going at like
literally right at McKenna and Akard.
So, I remember it like it was yesterday.
I was wearing these white Air Force Ones
going up jeans, whatever. We're standing
in line. There's a huge line out the
door and McKini kind of slopes downward
a little bit. And there's a reason why I
know that we're standing in line and all
of the sudden it starts to torrential
downpour. I'm talking about rain like
you can't see in front of you rain.
So, by the time we get to the front,
this
grass little hill, mud is coming down
this hill. I step in a big puddle of
mud. My white Air Force Ones are covered
in mud. I'm drenched down, you know,
whatever. And I get to the front
and I guess Major and TJ looked, you
know, a little bit better than me. So,
the bouncer's like, "Yeah, these guys."
And he looks at me and looks at my shoes
and says, "No."
What do you mean? No. I was like, people
are like in those shoes. They're not
coming in. So, he'll let me into the
club. So, I remember standing on the
side of the, you know, by the building
just feeling just defeated like cuz like
I saved up all my gas money from double
days to get here like and now I'm on the
side of the road. We can't get in the
club. The night's over, you know,
whatever.
Fast forward many years.
I get a call one day that there's uh
this uh vacant building that used to be
a nightclub in Dallas.
I know the guy I know the developer for
many years. He's going through some
stuff and some people had owned it
before and um they tried to put a
restaurant in there. Ended up not
working.
He says, "Hey, um you want to come see
this site?" I was like, "Where is it?"
He's like, "Oh, it's on McKini." Like,
"Okay, well, I'm in Dallas and let's
check it out." Whatever. go by like
this is that old nightclub's
it's been vacant for years and um he's
like well look the zoning you know only
allows you to build you know 20 ft which
is like two stories there's huge
buildings all around no residential
permitted
so in a moment of um
I think grace is the only word that I
can think of he says you want Buy it.
Buy it. I'm thinking to myself, all this
all these events of double date standing
in the rain doing whatever. By the way,
I still have the shoes, by the way. I
still have the White Air Force Ones,
literally. In fact, I have a pair of
white Air Force Ones that my friend
who's a fashion designer in LA put my
logo on the side of it and has the
little raster thing that I wear them
around just to remember. Um,
so in a matter of 2 weeks I bought the
building and over the last 8 years I've
gone through the most comprehensive
zoning change in the history of Dallas,
Texas. And we changed the height from 20
ft to 400 ft
to residential to be right there
directly across the street to look
literally downward on Goldman Sachs's
new headquarters. And so this year, you
guys will be with us. We'll have the
groundbreaking ceremony and I will wear
the white Air Force ones to the
ceremony. And when it's done, I'll put
them in a little glass box and frame
them in the lobby.
>> Wow. Hey, you can't make that up.
>> No. Stephen King used to say, um,
life is stranger than fiction.
And you know, the reporter, and by the
way, Stephen King has actually published
more pages than anybody in history, FYI.
and has a bunch of movies that you don't
even know that Stephen King wrote. Wrote
The Shining, Shaw Shank Redemption,
Green Mile. Did he really? The Shining.
That's great. I know The Shining. Okay.
No, he's a cold gangster. Anyways, I
said, "Well, how is um life strange?
That doesn't make life stranger than
fiction." He's like, "Oh, well, um
fiction has to make sense.
Life doesn't have to make sense. It is
certainly not fair. Never was, never
will be." Um but yes, there is a there
is some golden thread um that connects
all of it um together if you have the
you know if you have the eyes to look
for it.
>> So if I was a young person getting
started in real estate, let's say I
graduated college or came out of high
school and I'm like man I I see this
booming opportunity in the real estate
industry. What is my first couple moves?
What would you recommend me do? You
know, it back to all the things that
we've talked about is if I'm just out of
college, I put myself in those actual
shoes. Okay, usually you've been eating
ramen noodles. You know, you've been I
would work on what I could control. I
would start getting my health together.
I would control get my mental state in a
place. I'd start finding a place. I'd
pick up Think and Grow Rich. And I know
maybe it sounds corny, you know, but
boring is beautiful, bro. Like, you
know, I get asked all this all the time,
you know, all the time. I'm like, dude,
I'm the most boring guy. You know, I
read all the time. I do the same damn
thing over and over again. I do my
posture, my agoscu training work for
posture management. I eat a certain
amount of stuff. I meditate. I do my
work. I go home and I rinse and repeat
over and over and over and over and
over. And I read all day every day. I
read all anything. If there's a pamphlet
in front of me, read I'm reading the
ingredients on a thing. Reading is
learning and educating. Watching, you
know, you I watch YouTube all the time.
I go and find the smartest [ __ ]
in the world and watch them. I saw Larry
Frink was at some conference. Bill Aman
was here. I'm watching your guys' stuff
and hearing these like just consuming
good stuff in the brain, but taking
physical control of myself is what I
would do is start to gain emotional
fitness, start doing the the priming
exercises. Tony Robbins does this
priming where you can find on YouTube
again where
>> it's like 10 minutes. It's 10 minutes
long. I would do the 20 He has a 20
minute one. It's 20 minutes and 17
seconds. I do it every day, sometimes
twice. Um, and I like that one just
because it's from like the 2019 one of
2019 event. And at the end when it's
over, he says, "Now stand up and just
make the loudest sound you can of joy
that you achieved this thing and do it
again." He walks you through. you get
the benefit of the great Tony Robbins,
you know, for free coaching you on, you
know, think about, you know, getting
your, you know, you do this breathing
and then you think of things you're
grateful for and then he calls it three
to thrive or you think of three goals
and then you jump, yes, [ __ ] Yeah. And
you feel this thing and you get in your
heart and you just feel, you know, you
feel better. And I would work on those
things because the vision that you have
as a college kid, unless you're, you
know, one of these tech geniuses or, you
know, something like that where you
already know where you're going, but if
you're anything like me that you had no
idea what the hell you were going to do,
I would look at those things that are
free basically. I would get myself
strong. I would make my heart and my
mind more coherent. I would pick up that
book. I'd learn, make some goals, and I
would get myself in a peak state and
then go hit the day and let the onion
peel and watch the next thing come in
front of me, but do it from that state
of strength, that state of emotional
health, physical health. So when the
opportunity did walk in front of me, I
can go rip the [ __ ] cover off the
ball, feeling good, and not acting from
a place of fear and a place of
>> Yeah. No, I I I I just wanted to
piggyback on top of that because going
back to New York, right, when you were
going to the bar to meet rich people,
you learned the valuable skill of
raising capital in particular, you were
finding people that had deals and you
were connecting them with sources of
capital. I love the saying that whenever
wealth is transferred from one person to
the other, somebody is typically in the
middle of transferring the wealth and
that person also makes a lot of money as
well, which is what's happening to you.
>> But then you took that skill of raising
capital to building your own firm. I
wanted to ask again along with somebody
starting their firm, what are the most
valuable relationships that you would
look to build when you're starting out?
Is it getting close with the bank? Is it
getting close with again meeting more
rich people uh or meeting more rich
people? Is it attorneys? What are the
non-negotiable relationships that you
need to really be successful in this
business?
>> It's it's a it's a fantastic question.
And what you're really looking for is
leverage. That's really the word. and
leverage whether how to get a bank to
loan money to leverage your skill. Um
getting a a person um look having a
fantastic accountant, okay, that can
really understand because accounting is
the language of business, okay, and
there is a language to this thing. So
always having a phenomenal accountant
that can speak that that numeric
language, find a relationship with them
because a lot of times accountants the
personality type of a great accountant
or a great CPA is oftentimes different
than an entrepreneur you know thank god
you know in the way they see the world
more risk averse um sometimes more quiet
brilliantly thoughtful and entrepreneurs
you know like us oftent times are you
know like fire you know it's like this
explosion And together you develop a yin
and a yang. So oftent times they can see
in you that bravado, that boldness that
maybe they want a little bit more of.
And you can temper your enthusiasm a
little bit with some more calculation,
more precision. And then together you
can find a little bit of a balance in
when you're doing things. So if I'm
starting out trying to do that, I want
to be able to know know my numbers cold
so I can represent them properly. I can
val value the things I'm doing, really
look at them, not get, you know, use
Excel to make funky numbers and make
them look like you're make 50 times your
money. Um, help to understand your
downside more because great investing is
about managing downside, you know, more.
That's the difference in gambling and
investing when you understand downside
and in building that relationship and
getting those numbers right and
understanding the iterations
understanding tax um tax implications
that helps you put together a great
perspectus that helps you really
understand the deal that you're doing
all the dynamics the tax of the city the
LLC account a great CPA has that stuff
cold and if they don't their buddy does
because they they're in that niche and
then once you have that part together
finding people that have money. That's
next. Because if you don't have the
container to hold the money, where is it
going to go? And that's why you see
people win the lottery, they lose all
their money, it's cuz they don't have
the container. They don't have that the
way to hold
hold the capital and having that
background um helps you do that. And
then, you know, having the relationship,
you know, might get you in the door.
Great. But if you don't have um the
knowhow, you're not going to stay in
there long. You know, you're they're let
you in the room. they're not going to
let you stay in the room. And so having
those first pieces together, that helps
you really understand the deal that
you're doing, all the dynamics, the tax,
the city, the LLC account, a great CPA
has that stuff cold. And if they don't,
their buddy does cuz they they're in
that niche. And then once you have that
part together, finding people that have
money, that's next. Because if you don't
have the container to hold the money,
where is it going to go? And that's why
you see people win the lottery, they
lose all their money. It's because they
don't have the container. They don't
have that the way to hold
hold the capital and having that
background um helps you do that. And
then, you know, having the relationship,
you know, might get you in the door.
Great. But if you don't have um the
knowhow, you're not going to stay in
there long. You know, you're they're let
you in the room, but they're not going
to let you stay in the room. And so
having those first pieces together, have
the accounting, understand your numbers
cold, double check them, have a clear, a
mind, you know, that looks at it, that
has that precision that more risk averse
is a good thing for a young entrepreneur
and then go talk to money and then when
you put money together, you can leverage
your skill set and build a great
product. You have a pretty contrarian uh
investment philosophy. What is your
investment blueprint or strategy for
other people to kind of know and maybe
want to follow one day? I think that
when you have the the the itch to become
an entrepreneur, okay, I think what
that's inherently saying is that you
have a voice and out of the, you know, a
lifetime of mistakes that I've made. Um,
one of them was not listening to my own
voice and thinking someone else had a
better answer. um and taking advice and
retrusting
um people that prove not to be
trustworthy and the definition of
insanity, doing the same thing over and
over, you know,
and so
learning to trust that what's inside of
you
is special. But if you have the the itch
and the knowhow, and I always, you know,
I've said to my kids, God doesn't tease.
If you've been given this inkling of a
thought in your mind because not
everybody has the same thought. You know
some of people I know that or in you
know people have different goals. What
what the goal is for one individual is
not the same for one. Not everybody
wants to be a billionaire. Not everybody
thinks they don't even think to be a
billionaire. Not every thinks to be a
millionaire. Not even people want to
whatever like people have different
goals to reach. But if you have in your
mind the seed or the inkling to do
something no matter how grandiose it
seems to you. I believe that God doesn't
tease. I believe that you can do it.
Yes. With work and discipline and all of
those all of those things. So I would I
would really urge people to take a
moment and that's why closing your eyes
sometimes and using solitude.
Okay? And solitude and loneliness aren't
the same thing. Being alone so you can
hear your own thoughts. You can hear
what you're wanting to do, what you're
thinking to do. And trust that what's in
you is holy. Trust that what's in you
has value. Trust that what's in you. And
when you listen to yourself and you
listen to your own voice and you
cultivate and you mature that idea and
don't share it too early because one
little snide comment from your so-called
friends can crush your soul. Once it's
cultivated, then go to your a mentor,
then go to an advisor, then go. But once
you've listened to you
and in doing that, it appears to be
contrarian because anything that's
disrupting anything is new. Disruption
and contrarian just means new in some
regard. And it took me a long time to
start kind of listening to my to myself.
And in baseball, like you said, you
know, you strike out seven out of 10
times, you're not just good, you're in
the Hall of Fame. And I think it's very
important to understand, you know, that
bosses take losses, you know, and you
got to you got to be able to weather
what that is and be comfortable, you
know, getting flat on your face and get
back up and do it again.
>> Well, I wanted to ask you about that cuz
you wrote a book called The Gift of
Failure. And so I wanted to ask you, you
know, what do you think the average
person uh doesn't understand about
failure?
>> That failure is a bad thing. I think
that's what that's what I didn't
understand. And I think that people take
the word failure and it has this
connotation has this um this energy
around the word that it's bad. Failure
must mean it's failure. You're a
failure. Ari, you're a failure. I look
in the mirror and say, "You're damn
right I'm a failure." And and that's why
I'm still here. And so
seeing that failure is a gift if there's
introspection.
If you fail, you're righteous in your
endeavor. You go and try the thing and
it fails. Okay.
Then what are you going to do? And
looking at that and saying, "All right,
I'm going to stop. I'm going to analyze
it. I'm going to see where the misstep
is. I'm going to find that one kernel,
that lesson that came from it, and then
I'm going to take that again. I'm going
to get up and I'm going to go do it
again." So failure to me
is how you learn to win.
Everybody that's done anything worth a
[ __ ] in this world has failed. And if
everybody does it, how could it be bad
if everybody does? Everybody fails. The
toddler when they get up to learn how to
walk, they fall down. They stand up
again, they fall down. Parents don't
sew, you idiot. He's never going to
walk.
>> No,
>> that's it. He's done.
>> He's done. Pick him out. Come on. We
don't need him anymore. And then at one
point, for whatever reason, the paradigm
shifted to where failure became, oh, bad
boy.
And we got
trained to think that it was a bad
thing. And if I could say something to
anybody about failure is go back to the
toddler mental. The way your, you know,
your parents or someone said, the way
they look, say, he did it. He stood up.
YAY. OH, HE f he's so cute. he fell
down. If you could channel
that energy to how you fail,
you would live a much happier
and fulfilled life for the purpose of
making your life, your work, your
worship so that you can add value to
everything doing because that's what
what makes business so great. It's the
logistics that allows you to add value
to so many different people. And the
byproduct of that might be some extra
money to you, but the value comes from
what you give. And uh Ari, we like to uh
end these podcasts off with two
questions. This has been phenomenal.
First of all, I'll get us started and
then Jack will uh close this out. But
Ari, if me and you were to pass away and
die tomorrow and you could leave one
more guiding principle with the younger
generation, what would that be?
I believe
William Henley wrote a beautiful poem
called Invictus
and the last lines are I am the master
of my fate. I am the captain of my soul.
And
I would want people to understand that
they are not here to manage
circumstances.
They are here to create the life that
they want. They are the architects. And
the great religionists, the
spiritualists have said this from every
culture since the beginning of time. The
Christian um culture would say I made
you in my image. You know, roomy and in
Farsy it sounds prettier. Um but
something to the effect of stop acting
so small when the whole universe is
inside of you. I would urge people to
say create your life. Realize that life
is a mirror.
It's not some external thing you know
that it is. So take those reigns you
know captain your ship govern yourself
and once you govern yourself you earn
the right to govern govern others.
And my last question to leave us off
when it's all said and done how do you
want to be remembered?
Well,
I guess if it was on if it was on a
tombstone,
I'd like to be remembered as somebody
that saw that failure was success,
that there was success in failure, that
this life is about experimenting,
experience experiencing
and then doing it again.
>> Yes, sir. I love it. Guys, that's a wrap
on today's episode. Be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content cuz we're
going all over the country, all over the
world to bring you guys the biggest
business owners just like Ari Rasar
right here. and go down to the link in
the description to check out all the
links to re socials as well as the link
to become a member of the number one
most powerful entrepreneur community and
network in the entire world, the school
of mentors, where you get direct access
to our billionaire network and you can
hop on live calls every week with the
eight, nine, and 10 figureure
entrepreneurs we interview at the school
of hard knocks. So, we can't wait to see
you on the inside. With that being said,
we'll see you in the next episode.
>> Let's [ __ ] go.
>> That was awesome.
>> Awesome. Great. All right, man. That was