Morgan is about to spend $260,000 to go
to university and become a graphic
designer. But what if I told you she
could save those four years of her life
and build her business for $0 today. In
this video, I'm going to show you the
eight simple steps anyone can follow to
build a business starting with 0 and
turn it into a cash flowing machine
using Morgan's dream as an example.
Let's go. I think first step in building
anything is you need to get a client.
But how do you get a client? I think
it's so simple. You literally have to
ask. It's not who you know, it's who you
ask. And people don't ask enough. So,
for example, let's say you see a brand
that doesn't look good. And I see a lot
of brands in LA that don't look good.
You walk into the shop and you say,
"Your brand could do some work. I can
fix it for you and it will equal more
business if I do." You'll be shocked how
many people will say yes when you do
this. So, I used to ring up companies
and say, "I was just looking at your
brand. It's really bad. my company fluid
can fix it for you and they'll be like,
"Oh, great. I was thinking we need to do
something with it. I just haven't had
time to find someone. Come and see me
tomorrow and we'll talk about it." So,
you got lucky,
>> right? But if people are listening, they
want to find a client. You just have to
ask. Now, often asking sounds like sales
and people get a bit nervous about
sales,
>> but sales is just storytelling. So, in
your case, I'm a student trying to put
myself through graphic design school.
Um, I am good. Let me try. If you like
it, pay me. Right? That's not hard. It's
not a hard sale. They say yes, they say
no. If they say no, you've got nothing
to lose. You haven't lost anything,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> But asking is key. The second thing to
get a client is ask your network.
>> So your parents, I'm sure they've got a
lot of friends who own companies.
>> And you might be surprised to get them.
One of them might like you to design
their new brand for their new company or
update their brand of their company. And
everybody has a friend that they can ask
that has someone that probably has a
company. And so sometimes it's just it's
not who you know, it's who you ask. And
so your network can also be your network
as they say, but I also think more
importantly that network will know
someone that could could be using your
service, right? But I think getting a
client is a lot easier than people think
these days, social media. Social media
is an introvert's friend when it comes
to u building a brand. If I was you, for
example, I would document in your own
way this process of of starting a
company or or just designing a logo.
This is the brief. This is what I'm
doing today. You can take pictures of
your sketchbook and put it up and you'll
be surprised how many people might see
that and go, you know what, I want
someone deep thinking about my personal
brand or my company brand just because
they saw one post on social media which
won't cost you anything to post. Right.
>> Right.
>> So, I think just it doesn't even need to
be you talking to the camera. That's not
your thing. You can literally take a
picture of the process and put it up on
Instagram and someone will see it. One
person, that's all it takes to see it
and say, "You know what? They DM you.
I'd like you to give this talk to my
brand, too." So get a client and it's
much easier than you think. You just
need to ask. So that's step one,
obvious, right? Next up is niche. Now we
spoke a little bit about this off
camera, right?
>> Mhm.
>> There there is something really powerful
in being niche. So for example, you're
designing my brand. I'm a social media
influencer. Now there'll be a lot of
people that have bad brands and they're
social media influencers. So, if you get
to understand how influencers think,
which you're going to have to do to do
my brand, then you can become the expert
in branding for social media
influencers, which can be very lucrative
because people want to know when they
pick a service what your expertise at
is. Now, there's a lot of people that
say they're graphic designers, right?
Yeah. That that means is your
competition is vast. But then if you
say, I but I only work on social media
influencers and I only work with social
media influencers that have a purpose
that has meaning. Now you've got a much
smaller audience size, which sounds bad,
but actually it's a much clearer target
group. Equally, that target group will
get to know you because like, oh, this
person only works with influencers that
have a purpose. So, they'll feel a
connection.
>> You understand what I mean?
>> Yeah.
>> Cuz most people in marketing or sales
for that matter, they think hit
everybody. But the power in niche is so
much more compelling. I think you're
still in development stage of where you
want to go cuz you know, you might want
to do products, you you might want to
work in other markets overseas and so
on. So, I don't think you have to make a
decision yet. I just want you to have
this knowledge about niche.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Cuz a lot of people is
counterintuitive. Sometimes when you're
starting out, you want everyone to know
you can do graphic design.
>> Yeah.
>> But actually, the power comes in a
certain group of people knowing you're
particularly focused on that area. So,
keep this in mind as you develop. And I
think it should come from what you
personally enjoy doing. If you like
zoning brands of influencers, that's the
route you go down. Give yourself that
niche. If you can name it, this is
self-explanatory. You need to name your
business. You got to think a little bit
ahead. Do you think you'll get a
co-founder? Do you see this just as you
doing graphic design? You just doing
graphic design. The only downside is
it's hard for you to have a holiday.
>> Yeah.
>> It's hard for you to have time out
later. So, there's lots of examples like
um there's big design firms like David
Olga. I don't if you know them.
um David Oggovy eventually David died
and so it just became Olgy
>> right so that's fine and then you've got
you know companies like Leo Bernette
these are big brands right and these
started out as people's names but they
then became the brands right
>> so you can do it that way I went down
the route of calling it fluid that was
the name of my agency and we had a
tagline design and marketing because we
were we were combining graphic design
with marketing strategy
>> which made the design more powerful
right it wasn't just a design. It was
linked to success of the business,
right? So, uh this proved to be the
right model because then me and Helen
eventually we got someone else to run
this for us.
>> Yeah.
>> And we didn't have to work every day
anymore.
>> Why did you end up calling it fluid?
>> We had two names. One was pink tank. We
thought that would stand out. You can't
forget a pink tank, can you?
>> Uh and then fluid. Fluid one. I think we
a lot of our clients were are back then
more established companies. So, Pink
Tank was a little bit too edgy. So,
Fluid is what we landed on. But we could
also trademark it. That was quite
important. Um, so we trademarked that
back in 2000. It was a name, a word we
could own.
>> So, that was good. Now, I like your
surname, Sullivan. I can see something,
you know, I can see a kind of Sullivan
design kind of model, right? So, SD, I
can kind of see something like that. Um,
I quite like Morgan as a name as well.
Morgan Design has a ring to it. You have
to check. You can get a trademark for
it, right? Again, MD is pretty
interesting as a as a letter symbolism.
So you can play around with this and
have a think or you can come up with
something completely different. I think
once you know your niche it might help
you know if if for example you're going
to help only people that help people
then you might want to call yourself
impact design or play around with like
you know uh with that kind of
terminology.
>> But I think naming it once you name it
it's like having a dog or a kid you
can't give it back after that and that
does motivate you. You're building
something a brand not a business
>> and so name it. Next up is step number
four. By now, you should have a business
name and a clear idea of what you're
going to be selling. So, it's time to
make the name official and give it a
home by securing your domain name. This
is the moment when your business starts
to feel real. I reached out to my
friends at dostore to ask them if they'd
sponsor this video because honestly,
what they offer is exactly what I wish
I'd had when I started my first
business. Whether you're launching an
app, a product, a service, one thing is
essential. You'll need a strong
professional domain name from day one.
It's not just about having a link to
share. It's about branding and trust.
That's why I always recommend getting a
do.store domain, especially if you're
launching something e-commerce related
or product based. It instantly tells
people what your site is about selling
online. And it's not just me saying
this. Massive brands like Mr. Beast,
Rihanna, and Ronaldo all use storetore
domains. In fact, dotstore sites have
seen up to 87% more traffic and double
the Google rankings, meaning more
visibility and more sales. For a limited
time, you can grabstore domain for just
99 cents using the code simon at the
link below. And when you do, you'll
unlock access to elevate.store, which
includes over $2,500 worth of perks from
tools like Canva, Shopify, and more.
Well, you can purchase this domain name
from GoDaddy, Namecheep, or other
providers. The coupon code is only valid
through the link in my description.
Build your brand the smart way. Grab
your dotstore domain name today. Next
up, case studies. The biggest single
thing I learned building fluid was your
credibility came from not what you told
people you did, but from showing people
what you did. So again, you've got a
lucky break. I'm one of the biggest
business influencers in the world. If
you do my brand, you'll be able to go to
other business influencer or other
influencers in general and say, I did
Simon Scrib's brand and this is the
difference it made to Simon. He was able
to launch a hoodie brand with that
brand. he was able to launch a drinks
brand with that brand, you know, and he
was able to monetize in hundred other
ways that he didn't before I sorted out
his branding. So, you create a case
study and you really want to focus on
not just the look of the product, but
perhaps what that change in look did for
the client. So, we call this in
marketing sell the sizzle, not the
stake. So, you don't necessarily say I
changed their logo. You say the outcome
of changing that logo. As you're
building this out now, try to think a
little bit more businessy. And that's
not a negative word. Just because you're
creative doesn't mean you can't be a
business person, right? It's it's
definitely all teachable, but as you're
building something, you kind of want to
create like, okay, Simon, now you've got
the logo. What happened after that? Did
you know you sold hoodies now and people
bought them because the the logo is
cool? So that that kind of case study um
is vital. And I also think understanding
what is it you want people to say about
your work. So almost creating a story
about what you did. So two story. Now
you probably in your case have more than
most cuz you can tell the story about
how you were working at Bubba Gump and
then this guy come up to you and said
hello.
>> Right. But talking about the story,
creating a case study story of of your
journey will help you sell your
services. And I think the story is quite
compelling. You're working two jobs,
you're studying, you're you're pushing
yourself. A lot of people relate to that
story. A lot of people who are
successful in business today that need a
rebrand of their business or their
personal brand will remember they were
like you once, right? So telling this
story is vital. And people don't tell
their story enough. You will say, "Hi,
I'm I'm a graphic designer, but I'm just
a student. I'm not very good yet. I
don't think instead you want to say,
look, I'm on this journey to become the
one of the best graphic designers in the
world. I love the process of creating. I
really enjoy I love the creating art and
and business. It's kind of interesting
to me and you know I'm I'm doing two
jobs right now but my dream is to do
this full time. You know what I mean?
Like that storytelling is very powerful
and you you need to make sure you build
it into your communications. Partners,
whatever you build, you're going to need
partners and there's various different
types of partners. So there's family,
they need to support you,
>> right? Sounds like they already do. You
sound got very supportive parents, which
is which is amazing. But equally, like I
said, if you go down this route and you
do do this kind of full-time graphic
design thing, your parents need to
promote you. You know, the your parents
need to fully back you, not say, "Oh,
you sure about this? You know, you
should you should do this." They need to
be behind you, right? So, that's one
type of partner. Your family, your
circle, your friends, right? They also
need to back you. And I personally
remove people from my life who don't
back me.
>> And there are some people out there that
are bad influence like, "Oh, come out
this weekend, Simon. You know what's
wrong? You're only young. you know, and
and now I know a lot of those people
that were telling me that when I was
younger are now working all the hours
God sends and they never see their
families. Whereas I have my son right
here with me right now,
>> right? I spend my time with my family
doing exactly what I love because when I
was younger, I wasn't tempted by those
other people's view of what a good day
was or a good week was or a good
weekend, right?
>> I was able to say no and I I made sure I
had the right friends around me. And
that's not easy if you're the wrong
influence. very easy to stop focusing on
your dreams and start focusing on just
trying to people please
>> right having the right friends around
you and then I think a co-founder in
business is very
powerful so again off camera or talking
earlier to Helen right Helen and I
became co-founders in a company together
so Helen was the designer and I was the
marketing person I didn't have her
talent and she didn't have my talent now
Helen could have learned my talent I
don't think I could have ever learned
her talent but there's an argument I
could have gone to university for four
years spent $260,000
True.
>> Maybe at the end of it, you can call me
a graphic designer, maybe. But I think
there's something really powerful in
saying, "Right, what are you good at?"
List out the things you're good at,
things you enjoy doing, and then be
honest, listening to things you don't
enjoy doing, and get a partner to do the
things you don't like doing. And me and
Helen were 50/50. Again, a lot of people
tell you not to do this, which is my
opinion. It worked really well. We were
equal. If I was 51 and she was 49, I'd
have to work a little harder than her,
and she I'm only 49. A lot of people
say, "Don't do an equal partnership
because what if there's an argument? I
want to expand into other markets and
you want to stay local in America. Oh
no, now we've got a problem, right?
We're going to have an argument. But
frankly, 49 or 51 doesn't make any
difference. You're still going to have
that problem. You should be planning out
together where you want to go. But I
think a co-founder is a really powerful
way. Um, and then you're not alone doing
it. So something for you to think about.
Um, I don't know you really well, but I
think generally this is a good thing to
think about. Can you outsource the bit
you don't like doing? And then yes, you
might have only 50% of the company
instead of 100%. But it'll be more fun
and it's probably going to be 10 times
bigger because you'll push each other
and you'll support each other and you
won't give up as easily. If you do it on
your own, it's quite easy to give up.
Right.
>> Next up, when to quit your job. Quitting
your job when you have two jobs and
you're studying, it's going to be hard.
Yeah.
>> Right. The number one advice I'm going
to say is
>> get your cost down. Getting your costs
up will trap you.
>> The more money you spend, the less you
have free time. So, whatever you spend
money on means you have to work another
hour at the restaurant.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. You could be tonight working on
the brand and then next week you'll be
launching the brand and then you get a
new client, but instead you have to go
to the restaurant and do a like a 9 hour
shift tonight.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, and I totally get it. I think
I was there as well when I was your age.
But I think, you know, getting your cost
down and then try to figure out how you
can gain back time, right? Every 100
quid you save is a whole shift today you
don't have to do, right? So, get your
cost down. I think the other way is like
build a little income stream. Now, I
think social media is totally
undertapped still. People think there's
so many people on social media. Oh my
god, it's so competitive. No, I don't
know a single person on TikTok
documenting their journey of becoming a
graphic designer.
>> I don't know anybody.
>> I don't either.
>> So, that could be you,
>> right? And that could make you money
>> and that could be making you $20 today,
$30 tomorrow. If you go live on social
media here, like I'm live, people can
give gifts on here. So, I haven't
checked this live, but I often end up
with $50, $100 of gifts every day. I
give that money away. That's my
decision. But you could be putting that
money in your bank.
>> So, you could be literally designing
your project now, going live, and making
money on that live. The other thing is
save some money. If you can save
yourself two weeks worth of your two
jobs, that's two weeks of freedom to
work on building this out. So, every
time you work a shift, I kind of want
you to realize that every time you spend
that money, you restrict the amount of
time you could spend on being focused on
your dream. So, save money. I know it's
hard when you're young cuz you're like,
I'm working two jobs. I'm studying. Let
me just go out and have a meal with my
friends.
>> No, I'm thinking about all the Taco Bell
I've bought.
>> Yeah, exactly. Then the guy at Taco Bell
is sitting on the beach somewhere
laughing his head off. One other thing,
look at your monthly costs. Let's say
for argument sake, I'm probably gonna be
way off here, but let's say your monthly
cost is 2,000 US a month. Let's just say
you somehow get a little bit, let's say,
social media income and you get one
client and you can get this down to
$1,500. In other words, you you've got
500 coming in. You look at how much time
you're saving, $500, you can put into
making more money. It's self-fulfilling.
You see, basically what you want to try
and do is save enough money to give
yourself 3 months. I can almost
guarantee if you're full-time for 3
months on graphic design and you follow
the things I just said within 3 months
you will be earning 2,000 and you don't
need to go do those two jobs anymore and
you can be doing what you said your
dream is which is graphic design.
>> Service business is like the best
business in the world. Now one thing I
can quickly tell you cash flow is very
important so you can quit.
>> So let's say me right I'm your client. I
paid you in advance. People should pay
you in advance. The normal model that I
think everyone should understand is the
50 50% model. So, normally, let's say
you say, "Simon, uh, design your brand
is $5,000, let's say, but I'll take
$2,500 now and then $2,500 when it's
finished." That is very normal. Now, if
you get paid $2,500, now you've got more
money than you were on your job, right?
And that means you can work on the
project, not do two jobs.
>> Yeah.
>> And then once you've delivered the
project, which shouldn't take more than
a month, right? There's no way it will
take more than a month. It can, but
working on it full time.
>> No, it will be finished much quicker
than that. But let's say the whole
process takes a month, then I pay you
the other 2,000. You've already got the
money for the whole month ahead. Cash
flow management is the single biggest
reason I think businesses fail and
succeed. So if you can get this
framework right, I predict that you can
quit without too much worry and you will
quickly within 3 months, if you follow
this formula, be able to do your dream.
The final thing I'm going to say to you,
enjoy the journey. Okay? Cuz my favorite
time in my life was when I was building
the company when I sold it. Don't get me
wrong, that was an amazing thing, too.
But I still often the thing I remember
is not when I sold it. It's when I was
building it.
>> Yeah,
>> it was really fun to be learning all
this stuff that we're just talking about
here. But the one big thing that if I if
I go back to my younger self, if I went
back to you knowing what I know now,
purpose
>> is the word I'd add into the business.
Again, I was saying earlier, maybe you
pick a niche and the niche is you help
influencers that are doing good. But
purpose, what is the reason for making
the money? It's it can't just be that
you enjoy the graphic design, which is
perfectly fine by the way, but I think
it's something extra. Maybe, for
example, and this is the wrong example,
but let's say you allocate some of your
profits to funding something that
matters to you, or you decide to take on
at least one pro bono project a year
that is redesigning a charity and
helping them be more successful.
>> I'm just picking stuff up. You have to
dig deeper. Where your pain lives is
where your purpose lives. So, whatever
your pain has been is where your purpose
lives. It could be, by the way, that you
know, 5 years time when you're a
successful graphic design agency, you go
back to that student who couldn't afford
to go to university and you do what I'm
doing for you here.
>> That'd be really cool.
>> It might be that. I think you have to go
through the process, but I wish someone
had just talked to me about this word.
It's not some fluffy frilly word.
Purpose helps you get through it cuz
it's not easy building anything. It's
not easy working for someone either. You
got two jobs. Is it easy working for
those people?
>> No, of course not. Working for yourself
or working for someone else is they're
both hard. But purpose helps you get
through it.
>> Yeah.
>> So, it might be something, you know, as
you go through these steps I've just
gone through, at some point you want to
add purpose into your business. If you
want to follow Morgan and her journey,
I'm going to put her social media
handles down below. And if you have any
questions for me, let me know in the
comments. I'm off to have some chicken
now. See you later.