How old were you when you became a
millionaire?
>> I don't know. I was young. I think
[music] sub 20s.
>> You were 17 years old.
>> Yeah. But I lost it all by the time I
was 20, 21, something like that.
>> 16 years old is when you started your
first company. At the time, it ended up
becoming a failure. But it taught you
one of the greatest skill sets, which
was SEO marketing.
>> You know, was broke, frustrated, had no
choice but to learn it on my own. I
would say it was one of the most
expensive lessons I ever learned.
>> How can they get started actually
ranking on AI search platforms? And what
does that even look like to start
building out?
>> In reality, ranking on LLM platforms
like Chad GBT Pro is actually very
similar to traditional SEO. The key with
LLM is, and what we found is
>> I want to talk AI and AI agents and this
being a massive opportunity.
>> These companies don't know how to use
this technology. They're just gladly
willing to give someone a,000 bucks a
month to do it.
>> Where do you see short form organic
content going [music] in the next 5 to
10 years?
>> Following with no revenue is almost
useless. Neil, if me and you died
tomorrow and you had one more guiding
principle to leave with the younger
generation, what would that be?
>> What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we are out in Beverly
Hills with an incredible guest for you
all today. One of the most respected and
renowned internet marketers of all time,
Mr. Neil Patel. Neil, it's great to be
with you today.
>> Hey, good to see you as well again. you
know, and and and for the people that
don't know, maybe this is their first
time hearing from you. You know, you
really have become one of the most
respected marketers in the digital
marketing space in a world full of a lot
of people where you got to kind of
question uh especially in digital and
online marketing. You know, you built
real businesses working with some of the
biggest companies in the world. Uh I
believe under President Obama, you were
named a top 100 entrepreneur under 30
years old, which is an a hell of an
accomplishment. You built numerous
multi-million dollar companies. You have
one of the biggest marketing agencies in
America. And uh you know when I first
met you I was fascinated to find out
that you know I guess we'll ask right
now. How old were you when you became a
millionaire?
>> I don't know. I was young. I think sub
20s. But I lost it all by the time I was
20. So what do you really count as being
a millionaire?
>> Yeah. But you were 17 years old.
>> Yeah.
>> You were?
>> Yeah. But I lost it all by the time I
was 20, 21, something like that.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you know, when I look at
millionaires, I I look at someone I
don't really look at net worth. I really
look at like cash, okay? So, I made cash
when I was really young. I reinvested a
lot of the cash and I blew it all plus I
blew more money because I was borrowing
money at the same time. I was able to
pay it all back in a year. So, all the
money that I owed. But the the reason I
say that is like what is really a
millionaire? You know, on paper, sure, a
lot of people are millionaires because
of their house. Cash, you know, less so,
but still there's quite a few people
because of 401ks and stock. Like I know
someone that I met um a little bit ago
and they're in some of the biggest uh
tech investments that you could ever
imagine. Okay, I'm talking about some of
these AI companies that are worth over
hundred billion dollars and they're
angel and they were telling me something
like, "Do you know where my my best
return came from?" And I was like,
"What?" And I was naming off some of the
AI companies that they invest in. And
everyone here's probably actually used
those products. And they're like, "Nope.
They're like Apple stock." They're like,
I bought around 20 24 years ago and uh I
had the highest return from that than
over anything else. And I forgot how
much the return was, but I think it was
like 6 or 800x or something crazy like
that.
>> Gosh.
Yeah, that's crazy. And but I I want to
go back to again 16 years old is when
you started your first company, Advice
Monkey.
>> At the time, it ended up becoming a
failure, but it taught you the greatest
lesson that you had ever learned, one of
the greatest skill sets, which was SEO
marketing.
>> Yes. What is a venture in today's world
and maybe one of your most recent
failures that you've had that's going to
lead to one of your biggest successes?
>> Um
I think right now I wouldn't say it's my
biggest failure actually. Yes. I I it
actually is probably one of my most
expensive mistakes. It's not necessary a
failure, but I spent so much money over
the last three years expanding globally
like to Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong,
Australia, you know, Germany, Italy,
France, like literally all these
countries and pretty much around the
same time. So when you do that, you're
not burning like a million bucks or two
million or five million. You're burning
a lot more money because imagine setting
up a team in all these regions.
So, we're recording this and it's 2025.
It's one of the last years I would have
spent money um expanding so much
overseas.
And in the grand scheme of things, if
you fast forward 5 years, dollar-wise,
I'll spend more money, but percentage-
wise, I'll spend less. And here's why I
would say it was one of the most
expensive lessons I ever learned. If you
look at the economy over the last two,
three years, it hasn't been that great.
A lot of the job growth has been coming
from the government sector, if you look
at a lot of the private businesses,
many of them aren't doing well. Yes, I
know there's all these Nvidia and Google
and Facebook. If you exclude these
AIdriven companies like the Walmarts of
the world, the Targets of the world,
they're not growing, you know, hand over
fist like these AI based companies are.
And what we're seeing is most the world
has most of the business world has
struggled over the last uh I would say 3
years because mid 2022 the government
started hiking up interest rates and it
really started slowing down business and
that was their intention and goal to try
to bring down inflation. But when I look
at my big investment, it costs so much
money. But now, if I look at the
majority of the corporations that are
hitting us up, it's global companies
being like, "Oh, you have a global
footprint. Uh, we want to work with you
in Latin America. We want to test you
out in these regions and see what
happens." And a great example of this is
there's a privatelyowned company that
does over a hundred billion a year.
Okay? family-owned company that does
over a hundred billion a year. Just in
perspective, not publicly traded.
>> What space is that in?
>> If I tell you, then everyone's going to
know the company. Okay.
>> So, but uh they're they're in a wide
variety of spaces, but they're global
and it was created in the United States.
That business hit us up to test us out
in Latin America. If we get the
contract, it's not going to be much.
Call it 300 grand a year. If we do well
with them, they'll give us a few
countries in Latin America to
potentially all the countries in Latin
America. So maybe you go from, you know,
300 grand a year to a million bucks a
year. Okay, you do well there. Then they
start giving you more countries. So then
maybe you get AP pack and then
eventually Europe and then, you know,
North America. Now you got a contract
that's three million bucks a year,
right? I'm just rounding, but it's
probably roughly accurate. And then you
do well there. Then they're like, "Okay,
you're working on two divisions. We're
going to give you six more divisions.
Now you got a $10 million contract."
Right? With scale, things go down. Some
divisions uh have more money, some have
less. But that land and expand game is
truly how you build a B2B company, at
least in the enterprise space. Um, and
that international investment, if we
didn't make that investment, we wouldn't
have the opportunity to work with all
these global brands. That is what's
going to make the company boom in the
future, but that's caused us pain and
suffering for the last three years.
>> Right. I want to go back to the origin
story, but you know, you brought up
something right now that I've referenced
a bunch and it's a lesson that you
actually kind of had taught when you
spoke to our private community. And so
it was this this concept of
globalization. Somebody had asked you on
a call. I don't know if you remember
this, but I actually referred to this
exact moment that I'm about to bring up.
We just gave a lecture on social media
at Harvard recently and somebody had
asked, you know, hey, we're huge fans of
your guys' channel. We've seen a whole
bunch of people kind of copy and imitate
you guys now, your exact same question,
style of content and and I just they
were curious to kind of get what your
take is on on copycats and how you do
that. And one of the things that I had
brought up was just how important it is
to be an innovator in whatever space
that you're in. And in particular, when
you did a call with our community,
somebody had asked you what you saw the
future of content creation being. The
answer that you gave was the
globalization of content. Yes.
>> To where you know, and the way that I
look at it is in two ways, right?
Obviously,
>> you've got, you know, dub channels,
right? Where you can do hard knocks
espanol or hard knocks Arabic and you're
dubbing the channels with the AI and all
that type of stuff. But also, I look at
when we had some of our biggest growth
ever, you know, in our on on our channel
was when we did our partnership with the
UAE government and the UAE had us go out
there and interview a lot of business
owners out there. when you go do content
out in in Dubai and the UAE. Now you're
tap now you're tapping into an entirely
different audience out in the Middle
East because of how geographical a lot
of these platforms are. At what point do
you think you kind of recommend people
go global? Because the way that I look
at that and and that conversation that
you had with the the one member in our
community actually made me think a lot.
We actually recently just uh started
working with people to do a bunch of dub
channels, but then also this concept of
going to film content overseas. I feel
like you there's just so much untapped
growth in other markets. At what point
do you as a business owner kind of
evaluate and be like, "Hey, it's time to
kind of start thinking a little bit
bigger and get out of our, you know,
local, even national market and kind of
go global." What's your thought process
there?
>> When you're already starting to get
traction globally, if you look at your
analytics on a lot of these platforms,
like social media included, they'll
start telling you where you're getting
viewers from, like what countries. If
you start seeing big upticks in some of
these other international markets,
that's a key sign to potentially go out
and expand into those countries. Now,
before you do that, you want to make
sure you have enough capital you can
invest in that market for 2, three years
before you can before you may break
even. Um, and if you can do that, then I
would say it's the time. And when you
start anything, whether it's content or
a business, even if you're not going
global from day one, you should have
globalization
in your mind from day one, cuz that's
the only way to do marketing to create a
business. If you look at the largest
corporations that are global, you could
say, "Oh, they're born in San Francisco.
They're a SF or Silicon Valley company."
No, Google's not a Silicon Valley
company. Sure, they may have been
founded there, but they have offices
everywhere. So does Microsoft and even
Walmart. Did you know there's Walmarts
in China,
>> right? Like you got to think global
early on. That's the quickest way to
grow because a majority of the
population is not in the United Kingdom
or it's not in the US. It's not in
India. It's in the whole world, right?
No one country makes up 50% of the
world's population. It's the long tail
that really adds up.
>> I'm kind of curious how you go about
building teams in other countries
because I mean hiring as it is is very
timeconuming and hard. I mean, we're
going through a bunch of growth right
now at Hard Knocks and I probably spend
about 50 to 60% of my week at this point
just hiring and on interviews because we
don't necessarily have an HR department.
It's on us. You know, I don't I can't,
hey, you guys do these interviews. It's
it's still very much so founder hiring.
And so, I'm kind of curious like what
does it look like to build teams in in
different countries and just different
markets? Are you acquiring different
agencies that have had success in that
market and then and then pretty much
putting your infrastructure and systems
in place or are you just building it
from the ground up? So, we do a combo of
both. We definitely do acquire and then
we put our systems and procedures in
place, but the majority of our expansion
efforts have been boots on the ground
and starting it from scratch. So, we
look for someone who works at a
competitor,
who's gone promoted multiple times, and
ideally has multiple competitors that
they worked for. And then we go and try
to recruit that person, the one who is
leading up that competitor because they
usually have relationships with the
clients. They have relationships with uh
talent in the market. I'm not saying
talent that just works at the company
they're at, but talent in the whole
ecosystem, right? Because typically
people have non-p poach agreements where
they just can't take talent from their
existing business.
And when you find people who work for
competitors, have done well, and you
have them on the ground, they'll
understand the culture, the nuances, and
they'll be able to kickstart things and
get it moving faster than if you hired a
random person not from your industry and
expect them to grow. The other key thing
is when they work for the competitor,
you need to make sure that that
competitor is not too big. And here's
what I mean by that. So, uh, we work
with a gentleman named Dan who's the
managing director of our AP pack region.
He led up, I believe, Canada at one
point, maybe the UK. I know he worked
somewhere in Europe. Maybe he wasn't
leading it up, but he worked in Europe
for one of our competitors. He led up
Canada for one of our competitors. Um,
and he spent quite a bit of time in APAC
leading that up for one of our
competitors as well. And he got promoted
throughout that whole organization.
When we look at Dan,
even though Dan worked for a publicly
traded competitor, the division he
managed was still small.
If you take someone who is used to
managing a thousand people and that's
what they've been doing for the last 5
10 years and they don't know how to have
a small scrappy team, they're good.
They're just not good for starting it
up. So Dan was great at running smaller
and midsize divisions. It doesn't mean
that he can't run a large division, but
typically those regions generate less
revenue than let's say the United States
does. So he was a perfect fit because he
had the experience of starting these
regions when they were small and kicking
them off the ground and then scaling
them to decent size for those regions.
And the reason I I have that little
asterk by saying for those regions in
countries like India, you're just not
going to generate as much revenue as the
United States because of currency
exchange as well or GDP per capita and
things like that. So what you're saying
is is there's a saying that I love is
that the team that takes you from zero
to one is not going to be the same team
that takes you from one to 10 and then
one from 10 to 100. It's because there's
different skill sets for every single
part of of managing that team. You know,
some people are good at, you know,
having that small scrappy team, but it's
a different completely different set of
skill set to go from managing a small
team to managing like you said like a
thousand employees.
Yes. But I do business a little bit
differently. So typically, like you're
saying in business, the person that
says, "Hey, you the person that takes
you to zero to one is different than the
person that takes you one to 10." And
that person is different than the person
that takes you from 10 to 100. And the
at that point, you need a different
person from 100 to billion, right?
That's usually what people say in that
saying. The way we believe that you get
from 10 to 100 and 100 to a billion is
you set up a lot of regions where
they're just doing 10 million$20 million
in revenue. So that person doesn't have
to take you to a hundred. We think it's
very hard to build a business where one
person generates a hund00 million in
revenue. If you look at a lot of
publicly traded companies, they have a
lot of divisions. Some of these
divisions only make up 20, 50, 100
million bucks in revenue. Now, of
course, the Googles of the world have
divisions that make up over a hundred
billion in revenue, but they're rare.
[clears throat] If you look at majority
of small and medium-sized businesses,
it's a lot of divisions and regions, and
when you add them together, it becomes a
meaningful amount. And we find that to
be an easier way to grow than to just
try to get one thing from zero to a
hundred million or a billion in revenue
like open AI. I know a open AI has many
regions, but it's just one product. And
I bet you a large chunk of their revenue
is coming from the United States. And
yes, Europe probably does well for them
as well, but they're just like, "All
right, we got this one thing. Let's go
and just try to make a ton of money from
it." That is much harder to do. forget
that it's AI. But that's just much
harder to do than being like, I'm going
to build a $20 million business
hypothetically in the United States,
another five million in Australia, 5
million in India, 10 million in the UK.
You start adding it up with all the
major countries. Next thing you know,
you got like 200 million bucks in
revenue.
>> Yeah. You you know, you you you had
brought up how one of the things that
you do to kind of go get that talent and
people to kind of go run these global
regions is you'll go find your
competitors, find some of the guys that
have been running the scene there. kind
of reminds me of that Zuckerberg model
what he was kind of doing with open AI
where he would kind paid 100 [laughter]
million bucks but so so what is it that
you did to incentivize those people to
leave those comfortable companies that
they were in they were having some
success they'd probably have built some
experience up there were you offering
some ownership or kind of what was that
model like in mindset when reaching out
to these people that you're like hey I
know how I get this person to kind of
come and build with my company
>> yeah so there is a perk if someone stays
long enough you know we sell there's uh
equity there or if we do really well
maybe We distribute out um you know some
bonuses to executives uh and it's a
version of equity. A lot of people own
equity in a startup and majority fail
and the equity becomes zero. So we pay
competitive wages similar to what the
competitors would pay. We offer no
bureaucracy because we have no investors
and people like that. So you're getting
paid similar to investor uh similar to
the competition. There's no bureaucracy
and whether we sell or not, there's ways
to make more money that we can
incentivize our leaders that publicly
traded uh companies can't do. Nor can uh
investorowned companies because if
you're backed by private equity, you
can't have really flexible comp
structures because you have someone else
who has skin in the game and they want
to dictate what you do.
>> I want to talk AI for a second real
quick. I want to apologize. Um, my voice
is super raspy. I'm a big Dodgers fan
and so I was at game three of the World
Series last night, longest game in World
Series history. So, I'll just throw that
out there. But I want to talk AI. I saw
that you posted a video about AI and AI
agents and this being a massive
opportunity um for people out there. AI
being the next industrial revolution.
So, [clears throat] I I'd love for you
to break that down for us, kind of what
you talked about in that video and and
that opportunity with AI agents for
people to make millions uh coming forth,
this opportunity that's at at hand for
us.
>> Yeah. So, think about all these
businesses from HVAC companies to
roofing companies. There's even tech
companies and traditional businesses
like the Walmarts of the world. But
these bigger corporations, they're
already on the AI bandwagon. You guys
see it all over. You know, PayPal just
announced today that they're going to be
the default wallet, I believe, or
something like that for OpenAI. I think
their stock boom like 13% or something
like that in a day.
But there's a lot of traditional
businesses that need adapt to AI and
have it. And if you can create agents to
help them get things done, like help
them with their website, help them with
their marketing, help them with
spreadsheets, and automate a lot of the
stuff that they do manually,
there's good money in that. And these
companies don't know how to use this
technology. They're just gladly willing
to give someone a thousand bucks a month
to do it. Now, if it cost you a $100
with the agent and you just had to set
it up and you just make sure nothing's
broken and you're keeping 900 of it in
profit and you're just a solo
entrepreneur and then you go get 10 of
those businesses. All right, you're now
making nine grand a month. Now scale it
up and do it for more divisions, offer
more services, different types of
agents. Next thing you know, you're
starting to make, you know, 20 $30,000 a
month in profit. It's a great way to get
something started, then you can expand
from there.
>> So, I I want to touch on this though
because, you know, you're you're huge on
AI and we recently interviewed another
gentleman, Thomas Healey, who took a
company public in 2020. I think at their
peak, they had like a $10 billion
evaluation. And, you know, he was
mentioning in our interview that he was
having a conversation with a, you know,
senior executive at Amazon. And you
know, they're saying that the CEO of
Amazon's core focus right now is to
utilize and leverage AI in every part of
their business. And we just saw Amazon
just fired 30,000 employees, which
30,000 employees that are
>> they revised the job number. I believe
it was 13 or 17,000
>> still.
>> But yeah, it's still a lot. It's a lot
of damn people. Yeah, cuz the rumor was
yesterday's rumor was 30,000, which is
going to be the biggest cut that they
ever did because I believe the one
previous was around 20ome or around
there, but I believe it's uh 13 or 17.
It's in the teens somewhere.
>> So, you know, if if you're a younger
person, whether you're entrepreneurial
or even not, you know, going in the
business world,
>> what are some skills that you would
really be adopting right now to ensure
that, you know, there's this concept of
like being recession proof to no matter
what happens in the economy, you're
always going to have work. you're always
going to be able to, you know, find, you
know, make money essentially. Maybe
being AI approved. What are some of the
skills that you would be adopting to
ensure that, hey, you know, obviously,
you know, that's why the trades is a
beautiful thing, right? AI is not going
to replace a plumber anytime soon. But
if you're a business person, you're in
internet marketing, right? Because we're
seeing that it's it's doing a lot of
stuff from accounting to I'm sure even
SEO now, which is a business that you're
in. What are some of those things that
you'd be really really looking to get
ahead on from a skill set perspective?
So, I look at the skill sets as
different than most people. Most people
look at skill sets for AI, like, oh, you
need to be good at coding and using some
of the apps that just help you become
really efficient. Um, or some people are
like, you need to be a good prompt
engineer. I look at every single
business is a little bit different. And
what I recommend to people is you should
be good at just experimenting and
testing things out because it is
changing so fast on a monthly basis that
if you're not just experimenting and
testing things out, you're going to be
left behind. You're not going to know
what's working, what's not going to
work. And the reason this is also
important is
what's useful today may not be useful
tomorrow. Mhm.
>> So just like we saw Facebook crush
MySpace. Think about these AI
applications, there was Jasper. Jasper
was this application that helps you
create content in an automated way. I
don't know how many people use Jasper
these days, but it has to be a lot less
um than previously. And I know they went
upstream, but quantity-wise people like
I can just do a lot of this stuff with
OpenAI. In other words, you have product
replacing other products at a fairly
quick rate. If you don't experiment and
test things out, you won't know how to
adapt and you won't know how to
implement some of these technologies and
tools into organizations.
I'm I'm kind of curious. You got your
start really with SEO.
>> Uhhuh. And right now with AI,
one of the biggest untapped I think
versions of SEO is like actual results
based within Open AI or even just Google
search
>> is hey if I want to find this product
and then open AAI actually showing the
product and and pretty much ranking on
you know chat GBT
>> how how can people who who may not
understand that how can they get started
actually ranking on AI search platforms
And what does that even look like to
start building out?
>> Sure. So, there's a lot of different
factors that chat GPT uses to rank a
website. Some of them are brand
mentions. How many times is your brand
being mentioned around the web? Another
thing is relevancy. So, if we talk about
marketing and we talk about the school
of hard knocks and you guys talk about
marketing, that's relevant, right? So,
it's in [snorts] good neighborhoods
versus a plumbing website talking about
marketing.
Another thing is reviews. What are your
reviews? Whether it's a podcast,
someone's searching for a podcast on
chat GBT or actual physical product or
service. How many reviews do you have
and what are they saying? So, think
about like sentiment. Are they positive?
Are they negative? And how does the
sentiment compare to your other
competitors?
Another thing that they look at is your
own website and your own content. So, do
you have structured data? Is your
information easy for them to pull? or
using schema markup. All this stuff
makes it easier for them to index and
understand what the content on your web
pages have. So those are some of the
factors with chat GPT. But in reality,
ranking on LLM platforms like ChatG and
Perplexi is actually very similar to
traditional SEO. There's some nuances
like some of the things I mentioned like
they look at brand mentions while
traditional SEO looks at how many other
websites linking to you. There's uh
things like they look at sentiment while
traditional SEO doesn't. Uh but doing
some of these things is what's going to
get you mentioned more. Now the key with
LLMs is and what we found is they love
human written content, human created
content. I know all these LLMs can help
you create AI generated content, but we
find that they site uh and they push
human generated content more than
anything else.
>> I I wanted to we've been talking a lot
about tactics recently. I feel like we
kind of brushed over a little bit more
of your origin story getting into
entrepreneurship. I mean, you started
building a company at 16 years old.
Could you go back to kind of that
turning point and and what inspired you
to ultimately do your own thing? Was it
family? Like like what was it for the
people that may not understand how you
got into business at such an early age?
>> So when you're 16, this is 24 years ago.
>> Almost all highpaying jobs required a
college degree. At 16, I'm not a Elon
Musk or a Bill Gates. I did not have the
intellect to go get a college degree at
a young age. I know they didn't either,
but they're they're smarter than at that
age probably than most college graduates
from a, you know, reading a textbook
perspective.
So, my only way to make money was to be
an entrepreneur. And on my mom's side of
the family, a lot of people were
entrepreneurs and still are. They
actually do quite well. Uh,
>> what types of businesses were they
running?
>> Yeah, a lot of random stuff. uh old
people homes like you know like the
elderly care uh retirement communities
gas stations uh hotels or motel as well
uh public storage you know like the self
storage
>> so a lot of brickandmortar and
traditional businesses uharmacies things
like that and I was like all right let
me go become an entrepreneur and I
started because I was like that's the
only way to make money without you know
the requirements and the pedigree that a
lot of highpaying jobs required now if I
was 16 I could get a highpaying job that
paid six figures. I don't know if I ever
would have been an entrepreneur,
>> right?
>> Because I would have just went down the
corporate job route.
>> And why was it marketing at the time?
>> It was marketing at the time because my
first website that I set up was a job
board. When I was trying to find a job
online and I didn't qualify for any of
the jobs I wanted, I noticed that
Monster.com, one of the sites I was
browsing, was publicly traded. Saw their
financials.
I was like, "Man, this company makes
millions of dollars, hundreds of
millions of dollars. If I make 1% of
what they make, I'll be rich. Let me
just go set up a competing website." I
created a terrible copycat. It had no
traction. I paid a marketing firm with
whatever money I had from picking up
trash and cleaning restrooms and, you
know, selling car parts to other school
uh kids who wanted to like soup up their
cars.
took that money, paid a marketing firm,
didn't get any results, you know, was
broke, frustrated, had no choice but to
learn it on my own. I did. I got good at
it, got a ton of traffic, and then I was
like, "Huh, I don't know how to make
money, but I'm really good at driving
traffic and visitors to websites." And
where it really clicked for me was when
I was giving a speech at a college class
at night, and it was speech 101. I was
taking nighttime college classes when I
was in high school at 16. I gave a
speech on how Google's algorithm works.
You know, it was a topic I was
interested in, but probably put the
audience to sleep. But someone in there
liked it. Said, "You got to meet my
boss." They paid me five grand a month.
And they hired me as a part-time, you
know, high school kid. And I helped them
drive around 25ish million dollars in
revenue per year. And they introduced me
to three more clients that each paid
five grand. And I was making 20 grand a
month at 16. That's how it all started.
>> Incredible. And in your business today,
how much money are you making at your
company today?
>> Uh, not that much as you would think.
Well, compared to what probably most
people or almost everyone listening, but
uh I think I told you guys this earlier
before we started the podcast. This is
my first down organic year. We'll be
down 1%.
>> Just 1% though.
>> 1%. We grew if you include acquisitions,
but I don't like counting that. But it
was the first year I was down 1%.
>> Revenue-wise, could you give us an idea
of how big the company is?
>> Sure. We've been in the nine figures for
a while.
>> The nine figures.
>> Yeah.
>> Absolutely incredible.
>> When we were starting off and when we
were even, you know, getting to nine
figures because we've been there for a
while. We were starting to grow at like
or grow was growth was slowing down, but
you're still talking about 40 to 60%
growth a year. Mhm.
>> And it really slowed down in the last 12
months with uh tariffs,
>> right?
>> And that's what caused I would say the
negative growth.
>> So what is it that that does to your
mindset and how do you react to that? Do
you go back to the drawing board? Do you
re-evaluate that like like kind of I'm
curious to kind of get your thought
process as the entrepreneur that you
are? You're consistently going 40 to 60%
year-over-year. What is what is your
thought process and mindset?
>> Yeah. So, some of my competitors would
blame Trump and the tariffs and being
like, I can't believe he passed this or
whatnot. And the way I look at it is
like, dude, you can't blame a president,
whether you like him or hate him, for
your business downfall. There's a lot of
external factors like a bad economy or
things that happen that aren't in your
control that can cause your business to
grow and not grow. And when things are
good, you never really see people giving
acknowledgement to political people or
leaders. When things are bad, they'll
point blame wherever they can. Okay? And
I'm not really political. I really
genuinely am center on the political
ban. But the tariffs
had a negative impact in which a lot of
our clients sell physical goods.
>> Like let's say your Mercedes selling a
car. Well, if you're Mercedes selling
cars and you now have to pay more
tariffs, you're going to cut back in
certain areas. One of those areas is
usually marketing because it's easier to
turn on and off that or adjust that knob
or turn it on and off versus firing
people. Corporations tend not to want to
fire people first and I don't blame them
because it's a shitty thing to do and
it's a shitty feeling.
So while some of my competitors may
blame, you know, the political
environment or the economy, I look at
things as, okay, this is a situation.
I've been through bad markets before.
What can I do that is interesting? And
we should have had a much worse year
than 1% because of the tariffs. But we
were able to recuperate a lot of those
losses that we had in earlier in the
year once. I believe it was April
sometime. I'm 99% sure it was in April
when they really started talking about
them because you know I could see the
revenue hit you know during that time
and customers also telling us but I was
like AI is booming
and I was like why not start introducing
a new offering where we're helping
companies get mentioned on chat GPT
perplexity and some of these other
platforms.
So we introduce a new stream of revenue.
Now people in our industry will argue
that's the same thing as traditional
SEO. But if customers are talking to me
at conferences like, "Yeah, yeah, we
already know about SEO. Talk to me about
ranking on chat GBT." And when I tell
them it's similar, they're like, "Okay,
I get that it's similar, but how can you
just help us on chat GPT? We already got
the other portion covered. We're not
doing as well on chat GPT." And I was
like, man, I'm going to all these
conferences and this is the number one
thing that people are asking me for. And
I was even in conferences in Hong Kong
where you can't use chat GPT and
everyone's asking me about Chat GPD and
how to rank even though it's not
available in Hong Kong, right? Or at
least the last time I checked it wasn't.
So, they're using VPNs to use Chat GPT.
And that's the number one thing that
they're asking me about. And I'm in a
room full of enterprises. These are like
publicly traded companies like Fizer and
just giant corporations like that and
they're talking to me like hey how can
we make it where anytime someone asks a
medical related question a fiser drug is
recommended on chat GBT like I'm getting
these type of questions from a room full
of companies and I don't think any one
of the companies is worth less than 10
billion they were all publicly traded
but my guess is the smallest company in
the room was probably a 20 or$30 billion
company and I'm just like Man, this is
something we should push hard on and
pitch to every single company. And if I
pull up my homepage of our website, and
you won't no one here will be able to
see it, okay? But if I pull up my
homepage,
it ends up saying we adjusted our copy
so much so that we knew that this space
is going to boom it. We ended up
adjusting our whole pitch to being
around this. And when we ended up doing
it, we saw a bit more than 30% more
leads and we started to see uh a higher
close rate and a faster close rate. And
the text isn't loading because the
internet's not working right now or
wherever I am. And but it doesn't
matter. I can end up telling you roughly
what it is on our NP digital website.
It's something like um we help you get
found uh every or we help you get
traffic from everywhere uh from Google
to chat GPT and everywhere in between.
It's something like that, right?
>> So when we adjusted our copy to
including chat GPT,
we started seeing way more leads and way
more interest in business. And that was
huge. Here you go. I got the real copy
now. We make sure customers find you
everywhere from Google to ChatGpt. And
then the sub headline was we help you
show up everywhere customers are
searching, swiping, scrolling,
streaming, and shopping. And then on the
homepage, I have tick boxes and how we
can help you. And the first one is AI
SEO. I know people call it different
stuff like A SEO or GEO or chat GPT
marketing. We picked that one because it
was just easier. And we found that it
not only drives more leads, it drives
bigger leads and it was really that
messaging was really relevant to our
ideal customer.
>> So for one of those areas for the
future, obviously short form organic
content is massive for our business and
where we see it going. You obviously see
things like live social selling on
platforms like Tik Tok shop. Where do
you see short form organic content going
in the next 5 to 10 years?
>> I think it's going to be more and more
popular. It's the number one type of
content that's consumed on the internet
right now. People like it. It's
addictive. It's a drug. Um, there's some
recent studies that are saying Gen Z is
actually starting to use it a little bit
less. I think they're tired of some of
the AI generated short form, but uh I
think it's going to become more and more
popular and companies should create it.
And there's this big misconception that
oh, if you're creating short form
content, it's only relevant to B TOC. We
work with B2B and B TOC companies. Um, I
forgot the percentage. I know it's in
the low single digits. It's around 4%.
When we did a study, it was something
like around 4% of Instagram users are
interested in B2B content. That's still
a lot of people who are interested in
B2B content. And yes, there may not be
as many eyeballs, but those eyeballs are
worth more.
you you have a a beautiful perspective
on building a following um that I love,
which is that you don't necessarily
think you need to go after having tons
and tons of followers. You rather focus
on building an incredible audience even
if it's not as big of an audience,
right? You want intentional followers,
people following you for the right
reasons. Can you kind of break down your
philosophy on that and why people
shouldn't be too focused on just growing
a massive following, but rather having
more intentional followers that follow
them for the right reasons?
>> Sure. Uh, but first off, I I I want to
be very transparent. I don't have what
it takes to have a massive consumerbased
following,
>> right?
>> I don't have the personality. It's not
what not just not what interests me.
Some of it is also luck. You guys know
this. Why does one video go viral more
viral than the other one when one of the
people that you interview is Tom Cruz or
Shaq? A lot of it's hit or miss. Would
you agree with that?
>> Fair. Sure. Right.
>> But you went more viral than both of
them.
>> Yes. Exactly. But in theory, I shouldn't
have gone more viral than them. Would
you agree with they have much bigger
brand names than I did?
>> But the tactics though, that's the one
thing that I'll say that's kind of set
you apart. Like
>> our audience, they
uh you obviously you have a a big brand
as well. But they like for a lot of
people in our audience, that was
probably the first time that they ever
met you. Yes. Online. So they love that
introduction to somebody they've never
met before and seeing this person with
this incredible story. That's just
that's something that our audience
loves.
>> Storytelling does well typically on
social media, but what I'm getting at is
whether I want to post modeling
pictures. I don't have the looks or the
physique, but whether I want to post
modeling pictures or try to be a singer
and have a beautiful voice even though I
don't have any tune in my body. A lot of
it is luck. There's a lot of people who
are amazing singers yet have a very
small social following. It is hard to go
viral and create a massive audience.
Just being quite frank. Anyone
listening, if that's what you're trying
to do, it is a big hit or miss game. It
is much easier to educate and give a ton
of value and tactics and get views and
followership for that. It doesn't matter
if it's B2B or B TOC. The reason I
picked that route was two reasons. One,
you have a much higher likelihood of
success. two, they follow you for
something specific. So when you're
trying to monetize, it generates way
more revenue than the people who have
massive audiences that have a million, 2
million, 5, 10 million followers. Now,
if you have 200 million followers like
uh Cristiano Ronaldo or Kardashian,
that's a different story. Very, very few
people will ever get there. And that's
why I recommend going after a vertical
and just going after a specific core
audience and only creating content
around that because it's much easier to
monetize.
Following with no revenue is almost
useless.
You have to know the audience first and
foremost. And I think that's one of the
core principles that I think I would
love for you guys for you to kind of
teach is like when you're selling or
marketing, you have to know who exactly
you're talking to.
>> Yes. And if you could drop just maybe
two or three principles you feel like
every person should know in order to be
successful within their marketing. So
the first is who is your ideal customer?
For us, even though we help SMBs, our
ideal customer is a global company that
is publicly traded and they operated in
at least 20 plus countries.
Because an organization like that
typically
is looking for a global agency.
They'll take the time to decide who they
choose. It takes a while to get that
contract, but it tends to be really
sticky and it stays for a much longer
period of time. We have financial
clients where our employees are working
on their corporate laptops, not our
corporate laptops, their corporate
laptops. You know how tricky it is for
them to just switch out our people and
hire a new company and get it set up and
everyone on the laptops and background
checks and security checks. It's not
that simple. These contracts become much
more sticky. My audience isn't ever
going to be 10 million followers for
that. But when I produce content, I do
create short form content, but I produce
a lot of images with charts and data and
I release those on a daily basis. It
does really well. Why? Because my
average I not my average, my ideal
customer
will use those charts to make marketing
decisions and when they have internal
meetings and presentations, they use the
charts and they spread them around
globally. So then our brand starts
spreading to people in different regions
and it helps us get more and more
contracts over time. really ugly, boring
marketing that'll never get a million
views, but it generates revenue.
>> We we often like to think about if you
have a large following on a organic
social platform, you don't necessarily
own that audience. Correct. It's
borrowed.
>> And so, one way that you can own that
audience is if you drive that audience
to a lead magnet and collect a phone
number or an email. Basically, starting
a newsletter as well is a great way to
do that. Where do you kind of see
newsletters in 2025? Is that still a big
opportunity? And maybe just drop some
game for us on on newsletters as well as
driving leads to lead magnets in order
to collect that that data.
>> Yeah. So, you asked for a couple
strategies. My second strategy that you
have to keep in mind is it's hard to
monetize people on the social platforms.
So, now that you have your ideal
customer, you need to post content
that's specifically for them. you need
to focus on driving them somewhere where
you can collect an email address or
ideally a phone number where you can SMS
message because the open rates are
better. Either one works. Um or ideally
actually both. And if you're not doing
that, you're not owning your audience
like you mentioned. But what you'll find
is it's really hard to monetize.
And the third thing that I like telling
people is if you're going to create
social content, you want to build up an
audience. Not only do you have to focus
on your ideal customer and create
content for them, not only do you have
to have an email list and a SMS list,
but the third thing is is you need to go
to industry specific events and start
meeting people in person. It's hard to
build a personal brand because that's
really what social media is all about
without connecting with people
one-on-one in real life. And I think too
many influencers mess that one up. And
when you connect with them in real life,
a lot more monetization happens. We have
so many people who follow us. We yet we
make very little money from it. But when
I go to events and I speak and I meet
some of these people, our close rate is
extremely high and it generates way more
revenue than what we do directly from
social media. Yet these people first
found us on social media. So in theory,
I do attribute some of the revenue. But
if I never met him in person, we
wouldn't have closed those deals.
>> Dude, doing the unscalable. Um, is there
even even besides that, you know, a lot
of times like I guess Paul Graham with
uh Y Cominator, he put out a paper
about, you know, founders should do more
of the unscale like like in order to
scale, do the unscalable. Are there
other things that you've done in your
business and building your business that
were unscalable that maybe most people
overlook because they're just like, "Oh
man, like I don't want to get in the
weeds and do that sort of thing." What
is is there anything that you did to
help scale your company that maybe most
people would overlook?
>> Yeah. Uh, we got permission to record
sales calls. I started listening to
every single sales call that my team was
doing. I still do it to some extent now,
but not anywhere near that I used to.
And we critique the sales reps and we
give them feedback on how they can
improve their pitch. And then as they
pitch again and adjust, we listen to the
new recorded calls and we keep giving
them feedback until they do it the way
we want. And I'll do a lot of things
like that that people like, "Oh, you can
just have AI do it." I'm like, "No, just
give me the call. I'll listen to it
myself and I'll critique and I'll tell
you where to improve. And they'll even
have that person after I critique them
practice pitching me
>> and see if they're going to do it the
correct way. It'll take them some time,
but they get better over time.
>> And and they got to see if they can
objection handle new Patel.
>> Yeah. And my co-founder does this even
more than I do, but these are the kind
of things that aren't scalable that
produce results. When we expanded to 20
plus countries, a lot of our
international sales teams weren't
performing as well as the US sales team.
My co-founder and I spent so many years
perfecting the US team and we're like,
"Oh, just copy the US. Here's all their
scripts and everything that they're
doing." A lot of people didn't follow
it. We started getting involved, flying
over there. My co-founder technically
actually did that one. He flew over to
each of those regions, did sales
trainings. I did trainings when I was
there in person. I even hopped on
pitches with them. And I was like, and I
would jump in and talk about the things
that I felt were relevant when I felt,
you know, things were going the wrong
direction or they were missing some
areas. And I would even give them
feedback after the call. Even yesterday
afternoon, I was on a sales call. And
when I did a sales call, I ended up uh
telling the other person three things
that they could do to improve. And I
gave them the feedback. I was like,
"Look, I know you and this person's
really good." I was like, you didn't do
enough industry case studies for this
person. We have them. Two, you didn't
paint a picture. I'm like, they own a
ton of local businesses. You should have
showcasing a chart how many total
searches happen on the internet per day.
What percentage of them are local
searches? Like on Google, it's 13.7
billion searches a day, 5 trillion a
year. Roughly 40% are local searches.
That's two trillion searches a year that
are local. How much revenue they're
missing out from that. and then break
down where they show up local versus
their competitors, how many reviews
that's gotten them versus them, and
showcase how, hey, you could do all
these 10 things, but if you don't do the
fundamentals, which is what's driving
revenue from your competitors first, the
rest doesn't matter. And I was like, you
didn't paint the story. You kind of
described that, but the story wasn't
painted. And the third thing that they
ended up doing was they gave the pitch.
They show the potential prospect what we
can do, but they didn't bring it all
together. And what I mean by that, they
were just like, "Here, here it is. Do
you like what we hear?" We answer the
questions like, "Cool. Let us know what
you think." Instead of being like, "This
is the problem, and this is how bad the
problem is. Here's how much revenue is
costing you. This is how much it's going
to cost to fix it. When do you want to
get started? You can talk it over
internally. I'll follow up with you
tomorrow. this is what you need to solve
this and after we solve this we're going
to do B and after we solve B then we're
going to move on to C and here's the
time frame that it's going to take to
make all of this happen and oh don't
worry your website isn't up to date
fully no problem creating a website
that's perfect first and then doing all
this is a waste of time because if one
your business doesn't have time to wait
two's if you create the most pretty site
and no one comes to it because it's all
structured and done wrong what we're
going to do is we're going to fix page
page by page and get you more traction.
And over time, you'll have your
redesigned, beautiful, functional site,
but it's going to be done in a way
that's growing your revenue versus
costing you time and money.
>> Should I should I send the invoice over
right now or what?
>> Let's do it. [laughter]
>> But I'm not a saleserson. I just think
from a very technical, logical
perspective as a business owner, you
don't want to waste three months doing a
redesign. You want results now, and you
want this site redesigned in three
months.
>> Yes.
>> And you don't want to pay extra for it
either. How how how big of a factor has
with social media and the organic
content becoming so popular? I think it
was recently like you know they said
that Tik Tok had kind of overtaken
Google as like the largest search engine
>> for Gen Z. Yeah.
>> For Gen Z. Has that had a big effect?
And and what emphasis do you put on SEO
for content creators and just people,
you know, making content in general,
right? Because you even see on Google
now there's the short videos tab. Has
that had a big effect on your business?
Are you putting an emphasis for
businesses on on SEO on social media
platforms, too? curious on your
perspective on SEO and how it meshes
with the short form platforms.
>> Yeah, we get paid by publicly traded
companies to do their SEO on social
platforms.
>> And is that just through the caption and
hashtags or what is that through?
>> Caption, hashtags, uh what the video's
on? Because when you create the video,
you're talking, they're able to
transcribe and understand it as well.
What's a comment? What's a sentiment?
What's engagement? They look at all
these things to determine what videos
should rank. And we help companies rank
higher because if you're Louis Vuitton
selling purses and sometimes in handbag,
whether they can afford your handbag or
not, you would want all Louis Vuitton
bags to show up and it be inspirational,
motivational one day for people to buy a
Louis Vuitton handbag.
>> That's example of how social can drive
revenue. And um Instagram has 6.5
billion searches a day.
>> A day. glue that 13.7 billion. But
Instagram's number two. Very few people
talk about that. Now, sure, a lot of
people are searching on Instagram to
find friends, but a portion of those
searches are people looking for content,
services, products to buy. You know,
shopping on Instagram is massive. Same
with Tik Tok.
>> Something I just thought about was
really interesting is is how marketing
changes as your company grows over time.
I feel like for most companies that that
what applies to probably 99% of people,
it's very much so direct response. I put
X dollars in, I get X dollars out. But
when you talk about like global brands
like a Louis Vuitton, I think a good
amount of that budget probably goes to
just like aspirational purchases in the
future of like maintaining that brand
equity, maintaining a good face. And so
like even though
>> a lot of these purchasers in in the
audience, they can't buy it right now,
but it's something that they are going
to aspire to buy in the future.
>> Yes. Uh and not just that with marketing
majority of the dollars you know I look
at whether you're doing Google ads or
Facebook ads or SEO even though it could
be classified as performance all type of
advertising is really performance and
branding. Like Airbnb in the early days
spent a crapload of money on just Google
ads but how many people saw Airbnb and
clicked over to the site? That's
branding, right? And when you do a lot
of brand advertising like connected TV
like think of like advertising on
Netflix or you know television but
through YouTube. Um
a lot of those people eventually go see
a brand and later go to a website and
buy. All forms of marketing can be
performance and branding and you got to
push on all these areas because if
you're not your competitors are and
they're going to just gobble up your
market share. So, I'm kind of curious
how how should someone go about
splitting up their their budget when it
comes to advertising? Should they be
spending, you know, if I had to assume a
majority on probably more direct
response uh in terms of most cases for
most people? Correct. And then I guess
also in terms of like these higher like
the higher echelon of companies, I'm I'm
assuming that maybe like 30% goes to
like brand marketing. What does that
kind of look like for the companies that
you kind of work with? It varies
corporation to corporation, but majority
of the budgets these days that we're
seeing uh is very split. It's not just
Google, it's not just SEO. It's a big
mix. Uh there's too many channels.
People use Tik Tok, they use Instagram,
they use Facebook. The average person
according to Sprout Social uses more
than six social networks per month that
they're logging into. People don't just
use Chat GPT. They use Google and Chat
GPT, right? Chat GBT plus from Bing. So
you also got to optimize for being for
local results. So you kind of have to be
everywhere. So budgets are really split
is what we see.
>> You you you know you mentioned branding
and I wanted you to talk about you had
did a test recently where I think you
spent like $160,000
on like upping your like fashion or
something along.
>> I did that when I was younger, but it
was entertaining.
>> You you did a test there to see if you
would make more money.
>> Can you kind of can you talk about that
and explain what went what went down
there? [laughter]
>> Yeah, that was a [snorts] long time.
That was when I lived in Las Vegas.
>> Yeah.
>> So I live next I just I just want to say
this is the most marketer thing I've
ever heard is I did a test on my on my
outfits to see if I would make
[laughter] more money.
>> Yeah. So, this is when I lived uh what
is it called? Uh Crystals I think is a
mall in Las Vegas. I think it was called
Crystals. It was like next to Arya. I
lived in like the Mandarin for years. Uh
I think it's now the Waldorf Histori.
But um and this was on the Vegas strip.
So you always see these clothes.
>> Why do you leave Vegas?
Uh, so I I've gone back and forth to
Vegas, but I have a six-year-old and a
four-year-old. The school system here
from an academic standpoint are much
better. The taxes suck, but the school
system's better, and I'm willing to pay
the taxes to give my kids a brighter
potential future academically.
>> Love that. I just wanted to ask curious,
but go ahead.
>> Yeah. Um,
so when I was in Vegas, I was I was
younger. I I think I was in my 20s when
I ran this experiment. I'm 40 right now
to give you context. So I was either in
my 30s, early 30s or late 20s. And I
spent hundred and something thousands on
clothes to see if people would take me
more professionally. And what I found
was they did. People felt that I was
more successful. And I bought clothes
like Tom Ford and Burberry.
Uh I don't know what other brands. Lorto
Piana. Uh, now I dress, you know, some
say like a bum. I wear Have you heard of
a brand called Viori?
>> Yes.
>> So comfortable. I'll speak on stage with
like Viori sweatpants. I'm wearing them
right now. I have like 10 of the same
ones. [laughter]
>> And like my wife will be like, "You're
tying your string, you know, cuz like
they have like a string to make the
pants like uh tarina." Yeah.
>> So she's like, "You're tying it and
you're tucking in your shirt. Everyone
can see your string. It's not
professional." Back then people cared
and they would judge you based on your
appearance. And I would have nice
watches like padded phipe and uh you
know uh uh briget and different watches
and jewelry like that and briefcases
and people were like wow this guy
dresses nice he must be super successful
because they felt I was successful and I
was to some extent
they were willing to do more business
with me because of that. Now, in today's
world, I don't think they care as much,
but they kind of do. Like, I pulled up
here. You guys didn't see my car. I
drive a Honda Odyssey. You guys know
what a Honda Odyssey is?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> So, I drive a Honda Odyssey. I love the
car, by the way. I'm waiting for next
year where they come out with a electric
Honda Odyssey and I may upgrade. But,
um, I pulled up to the Waldorf in
Beverly Hills and I pulled up to valet.
is doing a meeting on their rooftop and
the valet guy goes, you know, like move
forward. So I move forward and then more
cars are behind me. They help the car
behind me get out and they valet the
car. They help the car behind them get
out and they valet the car. Then all the
people are gone and valet people are
just standing there and then they come
to me and they they they ask me to roll
down my window. So I roll it down.
They're like, "Can we help you with some
something? Are you looking to pick up
someone here?" Like they're asking if
like I'm Uber indirectly. I'm like, "No,
no, no. I'm here to uh meet someone for
a meeting." They're like, "Valet's I
think he's meant to like 20 bucks." He's
like, "Valet is going to be $20. Is that
okay with you?" I'm like, "Yeah, no
problem." I'm like, "Here, here's my car
keys." So, I went up to the rooftop and
I had my meeting. But now, I don't care
about appearance. I just do whatever's
comfortable for me. And it doesn't
always look the best, and I really don't
care. uh you know and a great example of
this is I recently did
uh a meeting with all the first grade
students in my daughter's class. So all
the parents were meeting like the head
of school, the head of donations, people
are dressed up. I'm in Fury sweatpants,
a white t-shirt, and I tuck in the
t-shirt into my Fury pants, and I tie
the the string, and I had like a hoodie
on, but it wasn't zipped up, so you can
see the white string. And I did not care
what people think. I'm like, "Whatever."
>> Yeah. We uh we did an interview with
Robert Hchevik and in the interview he
was basically talking about how on Shark
Tank Mark Cuban would walk into a room
when they would have like a meeting or
something like that and everybody's all
in their suits but Mark Cuban would walk
in a t-shirt and and just regular pants
and uh you know he's asking like Mark
like everybody's dressed up like why why
aren't you in a suit and he's like
because I can.
>> Yeah,
>> because I can. And I I don't I don't
think you're necessarily doing it for
those reasons. I think you're just doing
cuz uh like
>> it's comfort it's comfortable
>> and it doesn't make a difference anymore
[snorts] at my my phase in life.
>> I also don't think it makes a difference
for like a Robert Hershik anymore
either. Maybe he enjoys doing it, but
where I'm at in life, and I'm not saying
I'm more well off than him or anything
like that, but where I'm in life, it
won't affect revenue, it doesn't affect
anything. Like, dude, I go to meetings
with Seale executives at publicly traded
corporations and I'll wear yoga pants
and a white t-shirt and tennis shoes and
not care. And they don't care because
it's like at the end of the day, if I
can produce results for them and I'm
making them millions of dollars in
profit, they don't care either.
>> You know why? My my favorite saying of
all time is that uh credibility kills
all bad attitudes.
>> Yes, I agree with that.
>> And you produce results.
>> Yeah. Another another thing I wanted to
touch on because it's this concept of
like perception. I think you have a
really interesting philosophy on this.
You are very against this whole which
rightfully so against this whole we like
to call it the wisdom economy.
>> All of the all of the business coaches
that are on social media now. You think
it's one of the biggest scams that are
online. Yes.
>> Why is that? And give us your
perspective and philosophy on business
coaches.
>> You can get anything you want from Chad
GBT or YouTube or wherever for free.
Like there's so much content. I don't
know why you need to pay. If you want to
be part of a community and you're there
to help each other and you're there for
support, that's different. But paying
some coach $10,000 or something, I'm
like, what are you doing? You don't need
that. But paying to be part of a
community where you can, you know, split
with other similar uh like-minded people
and help each other grow, that's fine. I
think it's gone too crazy where people
like, I'm going to go to this person's
house and I'm going to learn so much
from them and uh I'm going to be there
for the weekend and it's five grand. And
I'm like, why? What are you getting for?
One, one of my friends just was at
Richard Branson's island. Uh he spent
more than 10 grand just on travel and
accommodations.
And I was like, why are you doing that?
He's like, oh, I'll see Richard Branson.
I was like, cool. It won't make you a
dollar more. Goes does it on his way
back. He's like, "Yeah, I met some cool
people, but I can see what you mean. I
don't think it's going to even make me a
dollar more in revenue." I'm like,
"Exactly."
>> Right. Do you think though, right?
Because I I one of the things that I've
cuz you see you see it a lot and and one
of the thoughts that I've had is that
there there's two sides of it, right?
You've got the guru, the person selling
the course or the coaching that never
has actually built something successful
with like what they're selling. But then
on the flip side, maybe say an
entrepreneur that sold a company for $20
million or $100 million and they are now
kind of their next phase is kind of
going into more like the coaching role.
Why do they need to be a coach if they
sold for like 20 million or 50 million
or whatever dollars? They have enough
cash.
>> But I mean maybe and like the
entrepreneur in them is like now it's
like hey I've got the skill sets they
can kind of teach it here. Here's my
question for you right is is it how do
where do you differentiate like like
let's say business coaching but also
consulting? What does Deote do? What do
those big four companies do? Aren't they
essentially consulting for businesses
problems? So like would you consider
those to be the same threshold there?
When someone has 20, 40, 50, whatever
million dollars,
if they [snorts] want to help people,
they can do it by giving out the
information for free. What Deote and a
lot of those consulting companies do is
they go in, they find problems, and they
fix them for you. And they'll actually
go and send people and do the work on a
lot of different divisions and different
departments. What a lot of these coaches
will do is say, "Hey, you're at a
million dollars. I'm going to help you
get to $10 million a year." A deote
doesn't come in and say, "Hey, you're at
a million dollars. I'm going to figure
out how to 10x you." They'll be like,
"We'll go help figure out the problems
in your organization and solve them."
My biggest gripe with the coaches is
they promise wealth.
And that's the majority of the ones that
make money. I haven't met too many
coaches that do really well without
promising returns. If someone just wants
to help coach you to become a better
manager or basketball players, don't get
me wrong, yes, there's a certain place
or time and they're probably valuable,
like someone helping Michael Jordan be
who he can be, like a Phil Jackson,
right? You don't have to pay him, but
assume, let's say hypothetically he he
paid him. Some of those people are okay.
I I I wouldn't give a blanket statement
saying all coaches are bad, but I would
say the majority of bisop and marketing
and entrepreneur coaches are bad because
they try to focus on we will help you
become rich, which is just a bunch of
bull
and all you're doing is paying them so
they can become rich.
>> I just think, you know, it's really
really interesting to see is is agree on
the business model or not, which I mean,
I'd agree. I think the majority of
business coaches are are honestly
garbage is what they really are is just
really good marketers.
>> Yes.
>> And that that if you can look at them
and like objectively of like with the
marketing tactics that they use of like
like you said like using a clear
promise, having urgency on your offers
and stuff like that, [laughter] it's
like if you just look at it objectively
and then implement into your business,
it's like hey, you don't necessarily
need to do business with them, but if
you study them, some of them are great.
But if you look at you guys, you guys
have a massive community. You don't need
to pitch anyone 5,000 bucks. I'm not
saying [snorts] you guys do. There's
more money to be made by doing stuff
with your community and doing businesses
with them and making money together,
right? The problem with coaches that I
see is that's their monetization model
because they don't know how to do
anything else and that's the quickest
way they know how to get rich. A better
model is to make money by solving
problems, not by pitching people that
you're going to help them make more
money.
>> So, in other words, kind of like the
joint venture sort of model where you go
in there, maybe get some equity in the
company, like you make money together.
>> That's right.
>> If you look at you guys, you have a
community. I don't see you shilling
$10,000. Come over the weekend and we'll
double your revenue.
>> Never once heard that from you guys.
You guys do just fine.
There's ways to make money without
telling people you'll double their
revenue.
[snorts]
>> I'm uh I'm kind of curious with you have
a business partner.
>> Uhhuh.
>> How long have you been business partners
with him?
>> Eight years. This will be our eighth
year in business.
>> Eight years. So I I mean if you were
scaling so aggressively, right? I mean I
look at like hard knocks. The three of
us have very different roles in what we
do.
>> Okay. What's a role breakdown? Uh James
I would say like face of channel
connections networker like like
genuinely like the he's the engine that
runs the entire business on the front
end.
>> Uh Jack and I pretty much take the back
end half and half. Uh Jack is does a lot
of our community product um front-end
sales for uh our marketing agency and
then I do I run the marketing agency
brand partnerships and then just help uh
with like hires operations for Hardnox
as well as Jack. Um, so it's pretty much
like two like we we kind of split
backend operations.
>> Cool.
>> So I'm kind of curious for you, how did
you and your first of all, do you think
people should have a business partner?
Two, how did you and your business
partner split up, you know,
responsibilities? And then three, has
that changed over time as the company
has grown?
>> So one, I think people should have
business partners because when you're
starting off, the biggest issue is
there's not enough time and money. So
when you have business partners, you can
divide and conquer just like you guys
do. Two, I don't think you should have
more than three business partners. I
think having two people founding a
company or three people is fine. The
moment it's four, five, six, it tends to
be too many cooks in a kitchen. So think
of a two or three person founding team.
And third, roles change over time as a
company grows. Just like how you say
there's a different the person from one
0 to one is different than 1 to 10
million in revenue 10 to 100 is a
different person. My co-founder was a
CEO when we started.
He got us really fast to I think 18
million. I think our second year in
revenue was 18. Um I think our third
year was like 30 something or 40 or I'm
pretty I know it was under 40 but we
were pretty much doubling every year for
a while.
uh first year was 5 mil and he was
great. Eventually, we brought on a
president, I think on year two, that
helped us scale and go more become more
grownup. And then we brought on a new
CEO, I think maybe year four, I could be
wrong, who helped us grow even more and
really go enterprise. And it's just
something my co-founder and I don't know
how to do. We don't know how to deal
with Seale executives from a politics
standpoint, a procurement standpoint,
and just dealing with all the red tape
and having the relationships and the
patients and know what issues are going
to come up and what causes churn and
what they're looking for in a sales
pitch. So, we hired someone who's done
that and the person we hired his name is
Mike Gullixson. He ran one of our
competitors and I think at the time they
were smaller, bigger than us of course,
but I think they had maybe around 7,000
employees somewhere around there. I
think now uh and he was running that
ship. Uh I think now they probably have
that same competitor has maybe like 13
14,000 employees. Um but he scaled us up
to a thousand plus people really fast.
More contracts, more revenue, lowered
churn. Like he just knew what to go in
and do. So then my co-founder and I, we
focus on our strengths. I'm good at
marketing. My co-founder is really good
at sales and recruiting. So he spends
his time on market sales. I spend my
time on marketing and we just divide and
conquer.
>> I love it. And I I I wanted to go back
to the whole coaching mentorship thing,
not to talk about coaching, but you
know, one of the most common pieces of
advice that we that we receive on this
channel is the idea of find a mentor.
Find a mentor. In your case, you know,
instead of business coaches, you like
the idea, which I love, is having like a
board of adviserss.
>> If you are a young entrepreneur right
now, you know, first of all, first part
of the question, then I'll finish it.
Did you have any mentors early on that
helped guide you as you were building
your businesses that you could kind of
if you had a problem in the business, a
bottleneck that you would be able to go
to and ask them a question? Hey, I'm
dealing with this. It's causing a lot
of, you know, struggle. Did you have
that when you were building your
company?
>> I did. I moved to Seattle for that
specifically. really.
>> I had a lot of friends who were
entrepreneurs uh more than 10 years ago,
maybe like 15, 16 uh no actually closer
to 20 years. I lived in Seattle for six
years straight.
>> And and how was that relationship built?
>> I would travel over there to help out a
few people who are entrepreneurs. Some
of them already sold companies. I
eventually ended up moving there. There
was a guy named Edward Yim who paid for
me to move there and paid for my
housing. Really nice guy, still based
there. and I would just give him advice
on his company and he paid for rent.
Rent back then was cheaper than now, but
still wasn't cheap. I think he paid like
maybe two grand a month or something
like that for a one-bedroom. Um,
appreciate what he did and people like
him would give me business advice. And
there was another guy named Andy Lou who
sold his first company to Aquaniv, which
then got bought up by Microsoft. Uh, and
then his second company sold to Vizio,
the TV company. Um and then now he's a
venture capitalist. Uh he would give me
a lot of feedback and advice anytime I
ran into problems. But yeah, just had a
good support network.
>> So if if you're a young entrepreneur in
today's world and and you know how
valuable the concept of having mentors,
a board of adviserss is, right? I love
this concept that it's like it's like
wisdom without the wounds, right?
There's people that have dedicated, you
know, years, decades of their life to
solving certain problems, building
certain companies. A lot of them, they
have the answers. It can save people a
lot of trial and error, but obviously
that young person, they don't want to go
the route of having to shill tens of
thousands of dollars to get coached by a
person. And obviously, like you said,
the right people that are that are going
to give you the real guidance to help
you build probably aren't going to be
the ones that are selling in
information, right? That's what it is,
selling information. How would you go
about building that mentor relationship
with that successful person? Cuz we know
for people like yourself, the the most
successful people, time is the most
valuable asset, right? Yes. You know,
you you you're not just going to be
giving your time to any person, right?
And and maybe people like you and and
just in that threshold of people, maybe
they're not even open to being that kind
of role in somebody's life. How would
you go about though if you're a young
person starting out? Maybe go back to
young Neil before you even had that
board of advisors. How would you build
that relationship with that person to be
able to kind of give you the keys to the
kingdom? I would just help them out.
Most my mentors that I had weren't built
by them helping me. It was by me looking
at whatever I'm good at. Let's say
you're a young kid starting up and
listening to this. You may be great at
social media content.
>> Help out people where they need help and
where they lack and help them out and
don't ask for anything in return. Those
are the people over time that will
gladly help you out and pay it back
tfold and do whatever it takes to help
you succeed and accomplish your goals.
>> Beautiful advice. I love that. You you
got to you got to be a go-giver.
>> Yes.
>> If you add value to that person, they're
going to remember that. And just like if
you can connect that person to somebody
else that can really help them out,
they're going to they're going to always
remember that.
>> That's right. But most people don't want
to give,
>> right? M
>> they want to give knowing what they're
going to get, which is very different
than just giving. When you give
selflessly and you just try to help
someone out, that's truly where I find
it to work. When you give because you
expect something in return, it usually
doesn't work.
>> Mhm. I love that. Another concept that I
that I had to touch on when I had
interviewed you last and on Rodeo out in
Beverly Hills, you gave an answer that a
lot of people chimed in on and they
really they really liked is that you
like the idea of going after a large TAM
>> where there's a lot of competitors, a
lot of sharks in a massive total
addressable market, right? Because your
mindset is all I need is a small 1% of a
multi-billion dollar industry
>> and I'll do well.
>> You're going to have a piece of the pie.
>> Yes. Why did you adopt that mindset as
opposed to, you know, going after, you
know, the opposite where it's like maybe
a smaller market but a lot less people
in that space? Give us your breakdown on
the types of markets that you like to go
after.
So, when you go after a big market
that's applicable to everyone or a lot
of people, there's it's easier to just
market and sell because you have a lot
more people to target. Now, when I say a
lot of people, it doesn't have to be
people in volume. And like, if I'm
selling toilet paper, that's applicable
to almost everyone other than a baby,
but they have wipes. Uh, but on the flip
side, I can sell marketing to companies.
There's a lot less companies, but
they're willing to spend more
dollar-wise. So, when you look at the
total market size, it's a formula of
number of people times the dollar amount
that they're willing to spend. And then
that's well into the billions, like tens
of billions. I don't like a market
that's a billion. I like tens and tens
of billions.
Then it's easier to get a fraction of a
percent. If you get a fraction of a
percent, you're rich. If you go after a
market where you know is only a hundred
million bucks and you get a fraction of
the market, you're not rich. And it's
roughly the same amount of work from a
marketing and sales perspective that is
to go after a really tiny market to
versus going after a really massive
market.
>> So that's my whole philosophy with that.
And I learned that from uh a guy named
Michael Delaney who is a uh owns a
private equity firm I believe called
Court Square. And at one point we were
talking to them and you know he said
something really interesting to me. He's
like the reason I like the marketing
space it's a big punch bowl. And
[snorts]
 he's like there's so much punch
to go around everyone can get drunk.
Mhm.
>> And I was like, I love this concept
because when you're going after a small
market, you're competing and it's it's
really tough. If you go after a big
market, everyone gets fat and happy and
rich. And that's the key. Now, when
you're going after a market, not only do
you want a big TAM, you also want
something, in my opinion, that isn't
innovative. A lot of people like, man,
I'm going to revolutionize coffee. And
instead of coffee, you're going to take
this one pill and it does everything
that coffee does without the side
effects. I'm making it up. Creating a
brand new product in a new market is
tough. That example of that is like 5
hour energy, right? You're innovating.
At that time when five hour energy first
came out, people like, "Oh, wow. This is
cool." And then they started having like
five hour snooze or sleep or whatever,
right? Variations of it.
>> Those businesses, you can make a ton of
money, but they're tough. But on the
flip side, selling wood, nothing novel
about that. We need wood for everything.
Desk, buildings, chair, furniture, you
know, um, homes, like literally
everything.
Selling stuff that just people need.
It's easier to make money and it's less
risky,
>> right?
>> You don't have to be different than the
competitor. You just have to do one or
two things better than them. And they
may do one or two things better than
you, and you'll do well enough to make
some money. I I I have to ask you this
because another thing we're we're just
breaking down the interview that we did
right now. You brought up the gentleman
that you know owned the private equity
firm. Obviously private equity they're
doing a lot of roll-ups of a lot of
industries in particular boring
businesses. And when I asked you in our
interview Neil, if you would start from
zero and make a million dollars in one
year, you know what would you do? Your
life depended on it. And the answer you
gave was you would go buy a boring
business and kind of implement some of
that new technology to grow that thing,
market it really well.
>> Curious your perspective on buying
boring businesses. Is that something
that you're actively doing or are you
just like you see a huge opportunity
there where you're like this is what I
would do if I had to start over because
of the immense amount of opportunity
that's there.
>> So we buy boring businesses for our
space. Most people don't want to buy
marketing related companies cuz they're
not sexy. We don't go buy HVAC companies
and plumbing companies. We've invested
in them. Um but we don't go buy them
[snorts] because that's not our core
focus and we already have a business
that's up and running. The reason I
would do boring businesses if I was
starting out is because businesses like
mine is hard to get a loan on a plumbing
company, a HVAC company, you can get
sellerbased financing. Okay? Because
typically when you're getting a loan,
you have to put a certain portion down.
You can get a seller to put up some of
the money and you can get the rest from
a bank. So then that way you don't have
to come out of pocket. And if you
structure it that way, they have assets,
they have machinery, they have
equipment. It's much easier to get the
bank to give you a loan than if you are
trying to buy a marketing company that
doesn't really have tangible assets.
>> We like to end these podcasts off with
two questions.
>> Okay. So my my first one for you and
then Jack will ask the last one here is
that Neil, if me and you died tomorrow
and you had one more guiding principle
to leave with the younger generation,
what would that be? Live life and enjoy
it for what it is. They're going to live
to over a hundred years, right? We I
hope you guys live longer than me, but
um my generation
we live to 100 that'll be great.
Hopefully, you know, our bones don't
deteriorate and it's not too painful. I
know some people live over a hundred. Uh
but no one wants to live a painful life,
right? You want it to be uh enjoyable
and you don't want your health to
deteriorate. At least stuff like bones
and bone density. It's hard to
recuperate it and have bones like you're
20 years old when you're 100. But they
have so much time, this younger
generation, that I don't think they
should start trying to generate create
businesses when they're 16 and 20 and
try to just become rich. Enjoy life.
Really live it up. You have so long to
live that you should just go enjoy and
experience different things in the
world.
>> I love that. And if it was all said and
done, how would you want to be
remembered?
>> Uh,
I don't really care how I'm remembered
by most people. I want my wife to know
that I loved her and I want my kids to
know that dad was there and they had
great memories and experiences with me.
Um, but I don't want them when I'm gone
to think about dad too much. I just want
them to enjoy their life and live
peacefully and move on and experience
things for what they are, right? It's
life. You don't want them to be like,
"Oh, dad was great in this or that." No,
just go and enjoy life. I don't want
them to think dad was bad, of course,
but um that would make me happy. I don't
care if people like, "Look at Neil. at
his home or look at his cars or how much
money he has. Like it's all irrelevant.
>> Yeah, Neil, this was a this was a master
class and an extremely insightful I know
for all of us and for everybody tuning
in right now. So, we just want to say
thank you so much for coming in uh and
to pour into our podcast. Really
appreciate that.
>> No, thanks for having me.
>> Yeah, for everybody watching right now,
be sure to like and subscribe for
amazing content every week. Every week
we're bringing you guys the most unique
and incredible business owners to give
their advice to you on how to become
successful in today's world. And if you
guys want to go a step further, uh, we
can follow along with Neil Patel on
social media. I believe it's Neil Patel.
N I L P A T E L. He posts some
incredible content. So, go stay tuned in
to Neil Patel. Any events, anything
coming up that people should be aware
of. Anything to check out?
>> No, not really. Uh, appreciate you guys.
If you ever need help with marketing,
check us out at NP Digital. But, um, the
big thing I would tell the audience, I
did not know that you guys create
content for corporations.
If I had to pick one thing people should
do that are listening, this is just me
really being objective. You guys
actually do a really good job creating
content. I don't know why more people
don't hire you guys for that. I never
knew you guys did that.
>> We do. We have about 20 clients or so
right now. So, we're we're looking to
scale and grow a lot. We've got an
incredible team.
>> Yeah, I should check out your guys' uh
like uh results for some of your
clients, but
>> uh I know the type of quality of content
you produce. Uh but I probably have
customers for you.
>> Cool. Would love that, man. We'll
definitely be talking and and lastly for
everybody else here in the audience, uh
if you guys want to get involved in one
of the top and most powerful
entrepreneur communities and network in
the world, every week we guys uh we host
live calls with the millionaire and
billionaire entrepreneurs that we
interview where you ask your questions
directly to them on live calls every
week and you connect with a community of
nearly 7,000 like-minded entrepreneurs.
Uh so we can't wait to see you on the
inside. The link's down in the
description. We'll see you there. With
that being said, we'll see you in the
next episode.