There are many ways to make real money in the market, but swing trading is oneof our biggest revenue drivers. It's become one of the most scalable, highestrisk reward ways to pull money from the market. Garrett and I didn't start outas swing traders. We progressed, we learned, and the steps we took mightsurprise you. This episode we're laying out exactly what we did so you can startbuilding your swing trading business today. It doesn't have to becomplicated. It's literally four steps. You'll want to pay close attention tostep three. We're bringing in one of the absolute best veteran swing traders onour desk to break it down. He's going to share his core swing setup in exactgranular detail and show you firsthand why all swing strategies are not thesame. This is not your average beginner swing trading course. We're giving it toyou straight. >> [music]>> If you're struggling with day trading, this one's for you. By the end of thisvideo, you'll know why you don't have [music] to start from scratch, how toease in and think about sizing, the real world swing setups we use at the desk,and how to manage these trades. Welcome to the Trading Floor Podcast episode 18.All right, Garrett, let's get into step one.>> All right, so Tim, this is this is my favorite step, but II'm excited to bring Ryan in later. Um that's going to be the highlight, soI don't want to dwell on these steps, but this this is my favorite one becauseit's the one that got me into swing trading. So,we call it step one, review your biggest winners.And what we mean by that is not your biggest swing trading winners.Maybe you haven't started swing trading yet, butreview your biggest winners, period, and ask some questions. So, the story is,and Tim, you know the story, right? Like I started tradingthe first one of the first setups that I really became consistently profitable inwas just buying higher time frame breakouts. And they were alwaysbreakouts that had some kind of big contextual backdrop to them thatgave them extra fuel for that breakout to work, right? The context was reallygood and it was usually like a day one breakout and I was day trading thesethings. So, scalping them, buying the break, maybeeven like holding some for a good part of the day, but it was always a daytrade and that, you know, I started out day trading. We were taught how to readthe tape and how to day trade. And these were the setups that really spoke to meand I was, you know, it was in a market where that stuff was working andI was consistent with this, right? So, one day Iwent back to review all my biggest trades. And what I found wasas I was going back to these charts, I was like, "Damn, likeyeah, I thought these were good trades, but I can the now that I look at thedaily chart, it's like the the space between my buy and sell is like so smallcompared to the move it made on the daily chart. Like this thing ran fortwo weeks later, right? Like I remember AMD was one of them that I'll neverforget. I was like, "This thing just went straight up, like never took out aprior bar low on the daily chart." AndI had an entry that it never saw that price again. And then I would go toanother one and be like, "Oh my god, it never saw this price again, either."These can be swing trades. And so,I started to think about that, think about how I couldturn some of these day trades into swing trades, the ones, only the ones that hadthe really strong contextual backdrop, like the higher time frame technicals,the catalyst, you know, your your trading it on day one, not day five,like that kind of thing. And And this is something that I I Ryan willtalk about later, but every swing trade is not created equal, right? And we'llwe'll get to that. Um but there are a bunch of different swing trade setups.Like swing trade is not like a setup, right? So,I My favorite thing to tell new traders is, "Hey, like go look at your currentplaybooks." If you're day trading,do you have any really strong contextual plays that tend to go much further thanjust that day? Do you have anything like that, Tim?>> Yeah, I mean I took a very similar approach umwhen I was starting out, but I almost want to ask you a couple questions justto really emphasize. Like what I think's interesting is it'spretty easy when you start your career to just be almost negative where you'relike, "Why am I not catching the entire AMD move?" You know?>> Yeah. >> And you're taking that small intradaytrade, but I think what's great with that story, and it's similar approachthat I took, is just being curious. Looking at your playbook and being like,"Oh, like is there a way that I could have caught this entire move?">> Yeah. >> And like rather than being like, "Oh, Idon't have swing trading in my playbook yet. Like how do I just keep missingthese big moves?" You're just focused on the day trade. It's like that's in yourplaybook. How could I then expand to the swing trade?>> Yeah, and it was exciting when I found this out. When I realized this, I waslike, "Oh, this is great." Because I'm alreadyI'm already buying it correctly. I just need to learn how toA, hold, and B, like know when to hold. And that's like a big one, right? Cuzit's like it's not like you're going to do that with like every trade.So, it was kind of like figuring out then, okay, like what environments andin which trades should I do this with? And then ofcourse then you go into like refining these things, and which we'll get into.>> Would you like to gain the biggest edge a retail trader can get?All of our daily and weekly in-house trader meetings are now available toyou. Just head over to smbtrainingfloor.comto find out more. >> Um the other big factor was just K fits,like our team leader. Um like he was already doing this likereally well, like that's his bread and butter.You know, he maybe he has different styles occasionally with like the way hebuys things or whatever. Like everyone has like nuances, right? But justgenerally speaking like he was catching. And we're talking about like longusually long long swing trades in bull markets,right? Where he's just catching the leaderseither on pullbacks or on breakouts and riding them riding the trend foryou know, anywhere between two to three days or even sometimes likea month, right? Um so seeing him do that also gave me a lot of confidence becauseyou get to actually like it's kind of like experiencing it when you see it.Like you you see someone do it, it kind ofgives some validity to the strategy and and even just to the ideathat like okay, I'm going to hold this. Becauselike when you decide to hold something, like if you're a day tradersometimes it feels very strange the first time you sit throughsome pullback that you know on like a day tradingshorter time frame, it's like it's out of steam, it's going to have to reset.And you're just like well, normally I'd be trailing out herebut this could go for 10 days. So you sit through that pullback and to havethat justification and that that convictionyou know, it really helps to have a mentor like K fits in my opinion. Thatwas fun to to see that, but also to go back to your own trades and and check itout. And I know Tim, you've gotten really great at holding trades. I thinkthat's like definitely one of your strengths islike we always used to Remember like when we would trade thejoint account and there were certain points in the trade that like you hadyou would have like strength and then there werecertain points in the trade where I would have strength and it was alwayslike right right in the beginning of the trade when it wasn't and this is what mymy old trading partner Ricky always used to say. He's like he'd be like, well,it's not not working, you know, it's like it's not working yet, but it's notnot working. And it's that >> It makes you uncomfortable at first andthen it's like but it's not invalidated. >> invalidated.>> And then later in the trade is where you came to crush it where it's like failingat top of the resistance, top of the range and I'm getting stubborn andyou're like, no, dude, that just failed that resistance.>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. >> Like we got to take off.>> Yeah, you were you were really good at holding in the beginningand then I was good at either holding or getting outin the end. Like during during once the trade started working.You know, cuz it's easy to get to get stubborn like that. So so what's steptwo? >> All right, let's go to step two. Andstep two is get reps with small size. So you reviewed your trades, you haven'ttaken a swing trade yet. The idea is you don't need to swing for the fences rightoff the bat. You're just getting your feet wet and the easiest way to do it isyou're already taking that day trade. Just hold a small core position for theswing trade. And is that what you did?>> Oh yeah, that's >> back early in your career in the market.>> Like I would I would just hold like the smallest size ever just to get used tothat overnight, right? Cuz that wasn't something like if it's new to youyou know, take take what you're used to with most of the size, right? Soyou know, let's say you got 100 shares. Like>> Do you want to sit in on all of our daily and weekly in-house tradermeetings? There's no bigger edge retail traders can get. Visitsmbtradingfloor.com to learn more.>> Take five shares overnight the first time. Just to just to get theexperience, right? And then make that 10 and then make that 20 and all of asudden now you're 20% of the position, which is like a legitimateportion, you know, and and that kind of brings us into the MCR ratio, which issomething that we use. Um >> What's the MCR ratio?>> It's the It's mo- It's It means momentum to core ratio. So, it's something on allof these trades that we predetermine or um it you know, it can fluctuate aswell, but we always want to know what it is. And what it defines is like of thatlot that we're buying or selling, you know, our entry size,what percentage is forexiting into strength andselling into momentum, and what is the percentage for the core that you'regoing to swing for the bigger move. And those twothings could mean different things to different people,but the super general simple way to look at it is okay, well, you know what? Iflet's just say it's a one-to-one ratio. That means it's 50/50.That means that I've got half of this position. Let's just say we buy 100shares. I know now that for 50 shares, I'm allowed to justsell into strength. Like I see the momentum, I see the momentum slow. Maybeit's the end of day one. We Okay, I think the move's probably good for dayone. I don't really want to Like I'm only going to take 50% of this. Theother 50 overnight for the swing, for the core, right? Or if you're muchhigher time frame, maybe that first 50 into momentum is you're getting it offon like day two, day three, and then now you're willing to sit through biggerpullbacks for something that you might hold for 20 days or something like that.Um and that's how we'll do it. And there are criteria to basically determine likewhat's the ratio. And it's it's pretty simple. I mean, it just goesdown to like how do you think it'll move?Do you think this is more of a momentum trade, or do you think this is a swingtrade? Do you think this is something that's going to, you know, be slow andand pull back a lot? Or do you think that, you know, this ismostly an explosive trade, and then after that I'm really not sure. Like,right? Like Okay, I think it's going to explodethrough this level, and then maybe have like a day two, and after that like I Ireally can't see past that. Well, then maybe you want to have a much biggermomentum lot than a core. >> Or it's a Nvidia 500, our favoritebreakout, and you're like, all right, a little bit I'm going to sell on day one,maybe 10%, but I'm holding this. >> I sold way too much. It's going to be aton. >> Oh, I didn't see that. I mean, that wasback in the day, too. What's awesome about the MCR ratio, likeI've found with our joints on my personal account is if you decide on theMCR ratio before day one ends, it really eliminates a lotof FOMO. Because it's so easy with swing trading, if like we're saying withNvidia, just saying I took off way too much too early. And if you have thismomentum to core ratio, and you're following it decently close, it's veryhard to get mad at like the position you're swinging because it waspredetermined, and like you can't get mad at you have 60% momentum, 40% core,and you took off 60% momentum, you know? That's following the plan.>> Yeah. >> And it helps you crush the trades, butI've just found it helps eliminate a lot of FOMO after that day one, too.>> Right? Yeah, cuz it doesn't seem like some weird spur-of-the-moment decisionthat you messed up. It's like, no, this is exactly This is how I saw the trade.And I'm just seeing it through. And you know, things change. We like to beflexible, but we always like to have a baseline, right? Like some sort ofdefault where it's like, "Okay, this is how I'm designing the trade. It's goingto be 60/40. Maybe something happens midway throughthe trade, and we're like, well, that needs to be 80/20 now, but at least wehave a baseline, like some starting point.>> And just with the small size, like I foundlike swing trading when I like first started like seemed like a wholedifferent type of trading. And if you're just swinging small size on the daytrades you're already taking, it really just bridges the gap where it's likeyou're not just reinventing the wheel. Like you're just taking your trades.>> Yeah. And look, I mean, sometimeslike you might go back and look at your playbook, and you find like nothing is agood swing trade. Like your day trading, maybe you're scalping, and it's just notthe kind of thing like maybe you're not really incorporating a lot of contextand like bigger picturestuff into the trade, and maybe it's a lot of like scalp mean reversion stuff.And that's totally fine. Like it's it's fine to learn fresh setups.But I just think it's a really I've just seen it a lot like with differenttraders. Like it's just a really good jumping off pointto find at least cuz it's low-hanging fruit. If you have If you do have anytrades that are bigger picture, it could be um some big mean reversionshort that tends to go, you know, multiple days past that day one. Itcould be a breakout that goes multiple days past the day one. If you haveanything like that, it's low-hanging fruit because you already know how totake that trade. Um but if you don't have that, which istotally fine, then it's just all about learningthe setups because there are a number of different swing trading setups that workthat are completely independent of each other. I mean, they're they're their ownplaybooks. They're very, very specific. And um that's what That's why we haveRyan here who's going to join us because he's one of the best swing traders onthe desk. And there's no one I'd rather kind of talk about and likepick his brain about uh you know, what what are these actualsetups that you're trading? Because I I have a few, but I think he has moreswing trading setups than I do. All right, Ryan, it's great to have youhere. >> It's great to be It's great to be withyou, you and Tim. I've been looking forward to this.>> Yeah, um so Tim and I just finished covering the first two points that wewanted to make about how to start swing tradingfor beginners. So, number one, we covered, you know, review your biggestwinners. I think a lot of times traders that start out intraday tradingalready have setups. And they already have trades to review. And I know one ofthe things that happened to me was that a lot of these intraday setups I wastaking would carry over into multiple days, and I wasn't realizing that untilI started to look back, which helped me start to design my swing tradingprocess. And then number two, just get reps with small size, right? You don'thave to start swinging the bat huge if you're not used to holding overnight,used to swing trading. Maybe you keep a small piece of a trade that you tookintraday just to see if you can trail it, get used to those reps. So, I'mcurious for you, like how did you start swingtrading? Did you start as a swing trader? Did you start as an intradaytrader? And what's kind of the story there?>> Well, those are excellent points to start off with, by the way. And andyou know, I'll also add to that very quickly if I can um because that'ssomething that I viewed a bit incorrectly when I firststarted and got into swing trading is that swing trading, if you'retransitioning from day trading or just a new trader and you you want to getstarted with swing trading, you you have to view swing trading forwhat it is. Um it's a style of trading. It's not aspecific strategy. If you say I'm swing trading, that doesn't mean you'retrading a specific strategy. Um it's just a loose term, a blanket term. And Ithink a lot of new traders um sometimes get that a little bit mixed up. Justlike if you're day trading, that's a style of trading. Day trading in itself,that that term doesn't um you know, allude to a specific setup or strategy.Um so, you know, new traders and and for me as well when I first got started umsimilar to you, it was small size. There wasn't too much intention or signsbehind what I was doing. Umbut you need to be careful with that when you're just getting started. Be bebe incredibly um precise with what it is that you're actually um doing. Um andyeah, it's it's a a good a good learning point um and and takeaway was from arecent meeting I did in in inside access when a trader said, "Hey, you know, I'mwatching this stock. Um I want to buy it. I think it's going higher. What doyou think?" >> Here's a mind-bending stat for you. SMBtraders have 20x to 40x higher odds of success than independent traders.Find out why and how to greatly increase your odds by visitingsmbtradingfloor.com. >> And I think it's important for for newtraders to to understand this, um which is why I'm mentioning it.So, I pulled up the ticker, let's call it XYZ, and immediately I noticed, allright, one, the the trader who's asking methis, a new trader, is long biased. The stock's in a downtrend, below all keymoving averages, including the 200-day. The sector that it's in is laggingbehind the overall market. Um So, what is thewhat's the setup here? What what exactly is your bias attached to? Um and youknow, for a new trader, it's important to understand, and I explained this, isthat swing trading, it's just a style of trading. If you're looking at the stockin your directionally um biased for the long side, what is the the actual setup?It it's showing relative weakness. It's below all uh key moving averages. Now,if it had to reclaim the 200-day, if it had to flip to showing relative strengthum not only to its sector, but the overall market, then maybe you get somestage one accumulation, a breakout setup um to to take advantage of somemomentum. Um and when I first started, I neverquite understood all of that. I just thought, I think the stock's going to goup for 3 4 days. It's a swing trade. I'm I'm going to buy it. And I wasn't asintentional as I was with day trading, which was, you know, the bread and thebread and butter back then. And that was my full full focus. Um and so it'simportant if you're a new trader transitioning especially from daytrading to swing trading, be as intentional um and be as disciplined andand precise as possible. Umhow I started was was similar to that and and I think quite similar to yours.I would I would have um you know, my intraday playbooks and strategies thatbegan showing um edge and and consistent profitability after about 8 months to ayear and that I really leaned on at the startof my career. Um and uh specifically it was on withsmall caps, low floats on the short side, day one gappers. Um and you know,the following day, the day one gapper that I would trade the prior day, youknow, that would already be out of my mind and I would be focusing on the newshiny object, the new day one gapper. Um only to pull up that ticker when I wasdoing my weekly review and see wow, for on day two, on day three, on day four,it was possibly even easier money and such clean fades into a two-day,three-day VWAP, rejected and you know, continued its its its downturn. Um andso that really got me thinking about building out a precise um swingplaybook. Um and you know, back then it was just for for low floats on the shortside. Um and and similar to you and I remember talking to you, you know, backin 2016, 2017 about this. It was, you know, small size, building confidence,um building out that edge to be able to really umswing a little bit harder over multiple days and overnight. Because, you know,when I was first starting out, it was um a little bit scary at first to holdpositions overnight. Um but that's what it looked like for me. And then And thenfrom from trading low floats um on the short side,um it started to snowball. I I would takesome skills out of that strategy and I would leverage those skills intoum overextended mid to large caps, forexample. And And And it all started off with just small caps and leveraging thatstyle into overextended large caps. And eventually to where I'm now, where it'smostly long biased um swing trading. Um and then a host of, you know, smallcaps, mid large caps, uh ETFs, indexes, um you name it. But it all started withone with one strategy and then slowly built out over time.>> All right. So, this is a great segue into our third point, which was thereason we brought you in here. Cuz this is what we want to talk about with you,which is learn your setups. That's what we calledit. But, like you already point out, swing trading is a style.It's not a setup, right? You need You need your strategies, you need yoursetups. And one thing that stood out to me when we were talking about thisum earlier off camera was you mentioned how like not all swings are createdequal, right? And this goes for they're different setups and they haveyou know, different expected values and probably different ways to manage thetrade. So, learn your setups. WhatWhat setups do you trade specifically right now? And how would you recommend anew trader to sort of go about the process ofdefining those things? >> You're 100% right. Not Not allswing trading setups are equal, of course. They're different nuances,they're different variables, different check marks. Now, for the new traderwatching this that is just getting into swing trading,um you similar to when I first got into trading and for me it was day trading,you don't want to overwhelm yourself with trying to attackfour, five, six, seven different setups and strategies at once. You don't wantto You don't want to You don't want to try to be the master, in my opinion, ofof everything. You want to start with one um and then, you know, back test itand then slowly take some of those skills you've learned, leverage it intonew strategies so that it it's more of a comfortable process. Similar to sizingup, you're not going to go from zero to hero overnight, you're going togradually um improve over time. Now, with withwith with with setups, there are a few um includingum my my I would say my three, four favorite swing trading strategies rightnow would be mean reversion. Um you know, we've had a few amazing meanreversion opportunities over the last few years. Um specifically what I'mlooking for there is for a major disconnect initially from key movingaverages. So, we have a stock that's in a nice steady uptrend.Um and all of a sudden we get a disconnect um from its in the midtermfrom its 50-day moving average. We get a significant disconnect from its 20-day,its 10-day, and then lastly, which signals a blow off, is you you get thatdisconnect um from the 5-day simple moving average. Um now, you can, youknow, quantify that. Um everyone's a little bit different from the 50-day,maybe you're looking for seven to 10 to 11 to 12 ATRs disconnection.Everyone's a little bit different and that depends on specifically what you'relooking for. Um but for me, um from uh SMA perspective, that's what I look forum in order to identify, you know, a blow off top, um I like to look for twoto three days, um not only a volume expansion, but I also like to look forrange expansion and significant disconnection from the 5-day. Um verysimilar to if you're trading intraday, for example, and you you're trading astock that disconnects from its intraday VWAP. Um, that's kind of how I view the5-day on a daily timeframe, similar to the volume weighted average price on theintraday timeframe. Um, and there's several other checks,but I'll let you know, the the audience go down thatrabbit hole for that setup. Probably the easiest swing tradingsetup, I believe, and especially, you know, for now, and I'm sure Gareth andTim, you guys can agree, the swing trading setup that's that'sbearing the most fruit right now would be consolidation breakout. Um,I think it's the easiest to understand, it's the easiest to identify, and andit's the easiest to visualize, um, in the sense that you know, it doesn'ttake a rocket scientist to be able to identify a stock in a hot sector,whether it's We have so many right now. Photonics, semis, memory, um,space, etc., etc. You know, with with consolidation breakout,if you're just starting out, you're a new trader, what's most important in inin in order to identify this, back tested, and and try and master it, um,obviously market context matters. You you know, you you don't want to bebuying breakouts when when we're in, you know, a bear market or a market that'sexperiencing a correction. So, so that's the overarching idea first. That'simportant. Um, but thereafter, you want to identify a sector that's leading theoverall market, a sector with excitement,maybe a little bit of euphoria. Um, and then within that sector, youdon't want to be buying the stocks, um, that have already played out, forexample, that are already 100% extended from its 200-day movingaverage and and setting up for mean reversion. You want to identify thestocks that are holding up best, along with beautiful, um,converging, um, moving averages. Short-term are very important for entry,like the 10-day and the 20-day SMA. You want to identify strong bases andthe rubber band effect. The rubber band effect, you know, the the more you pullthe rubber band, it builds up energy and eventually it snaps and it bursts. Andthat's what I'm looking for with these consolidation breakouts. So, you'relooking for a hot stock with a clean base. Um historically a nice um chartwhere when we have broken out, we've experienced nice momentum.Um converging tight moving averages, a tight range so that you have definedrisk reward. Um and obviously within a hot sector thathas momentum um at the moment. And I I think a good example of that, I mean,there were a few just from today. Um we hadONDS, for example. Um and on a higher time frame, we had atight range. We had converging moving averages, the 10-day, the 20-day, the50-day, the 100-day and above a rising 200-day. So, the higher time frameremains intact. Probably the most explosive example recently um has beenan ARM. Again, in a leading sector with semis. Hot sector. Um historically, thestock has shown, you know, just the prior month, amazing momentum on thatbreakout. We consolidated um for close to to 3 weeks.Um with a range tightening and that 10, 20-day and 100-day really allconverging, which is very important. Um and then we had that breakout on umthe 20th of of May. Um and that's an amazing um example right there. And onethat the listeners, especially on new getting into swing trading, can go backum write down all the variables, write down everything that was present, Iwould say, for that for that setup to follow through the way it did. Um studyit, back test it and then try and try and identify more of those setupsgoing forward cuz that was a that I mean, that was a clean one. Did any ofyou trade that? >> Tim.>> I did trade that. And uh before we get into the fun of talking about ARM, Ijust love the point of talking about what checks in favor, thembeing in strong themes, relative strength stocks because I actually gotthis question recently um of a trader trying to look for asystematic swing trading completely automated over all a entire stockuniverse strategy. And I'm like, there's so much discretionary elements that gointo stock selection for these swings. And if you don't have the theme correct,if you don't have the relative strength correct, likeit doesn't matter if you're waiting for a nice base. If it's a nice high tightflag in the wrong stock, it's not going to work. It's not going to have thejuice to actually move. But yeah, on my I did trade that one.>> you said, sorry to cut you off quickly, but I love that you saidif if it's in the wrong stock, it's not going to work.Cuz that's such an important point. And I think that's something that thatpeople don't talk about enough. Like if if you're buying a breakout in a stockthat historically hasn't had momentum whenever it's broken out, why is thistime going to be different? You know, so I think you I think youmade a very important point with that. And I I think it's it's something that'snot spoken about um as often as it should be spoken about.Cuz every stock has its own character and trades, you know, its own way.>> And and you mentioned too, Ryan, like the themes. And you you know, you callit sectors. You could you could break that down into more specific likenarratives. You gave some examples like space andquantum and drones today. That I think it is is like ait's like a sister of what you just talked about, which is like, yeah, wewant to know about the character of the individual name, and then we also wantto know does this fit into a narrativethat the market loves right now? Because again, like those types of namesare the ones that are going to catch fire. So, you're kind of using thatsetup to time the trade, understand when there can be energyexpansion in a name, but what really fuels it?It's It's that narrative, right? It could be a recent earnings catalyst. Itcould be a an entire theme popping off because of some higherlevel narrative, but either way, there's something elsethat's fueling the big move that you're going to potentially capture. I thinkit's always really valuable to identify whengoing through that stock selection process.>> So important, like you said, yeah, it's it's the sentiment. It's It's It's thatlike you said, it's that narrative brewing underneath the surface that canreally help catapult an entire sector. Um that's a great point, yeah.>> Tim, back to you. >> you know, what one of the most importantthings to consider. But yeah, Tim, back to you.>> Yeah. >> Yeah, this arm, I mean, just to get intothe details, when we're talking about a stock that'smoving in the past, basically, it had that crazy move on earnings. If you guysremember, beginning of I think it was I'm looking at my chart, 24.And it had like an explosive 3-day move. And then, for the most part, it didn'tget out of that base for 2 years. And on the weekly, it's a 2-year base that'sjust building so much energy. We get the ceasefire in April. It breaks out above190. And what I loved about this setup wasthat then you get 3 weeks of just consolidating, flagging above thebreakout level, holding in the top half of that initialbreakout move. And I was looking at this as acontinuation play on the weekly. And honestly, we couldget into this, too. Like, this is one that's probably set up to run multipleweeks. I traded it just as a multi-day momentum move.Um but switching to the daily, um just was watching that high-tightflag forming. You have the 10 EMA above the 20 EMA,both trending higher. And then you notice like right before the breakoutday on the 20th that it just surfs those movingaverages, gets really tight, slight gap up. Um the way I traded it was Ibasically took um starter size above 230, um which was still mid-range, neverwant to be too big in the middle of the range before it broke out.Um added above 240 on the actual breakout. Um and then honestly, I hadthis as an A- minus grade for me, and the volume in the strength off the openwas just so impressive. Like it was just so clear that like, all right, peopleare buying this like insanely. Like they're buying it like crack.>> Can we go back to that day that this triggered for you? Because I think thatlike we can look at daily charts like all day long and say, "Okay, yeah, thisbroke out. This was really great." But there's something that doesn't replacejust kind of like understanding like when thattriggered for you, like what it what was happening in the market, what did Armlook like, what did the volume look like? Because it wasn't like you weretrying this thing every day leading up to this moment, right? And I thinkthat's really important. Because we can all identify a stock that's holding, andthat's obviously going to go on our watchlist.But I think Nvidia reported, and and I think that that Arm was showing a crazyvolume. And so what was going through your head, and what did you see on theday that you bought it? >> So yeah, the Nvidia report, that was onthe close after the close on the 20th. So that was one of the factors ingrading it was you're buying it before Nvidia, Arm's most likely going to moveon the Nvidia report. Um but basically this was right when we got that firstpullback in the market. So we pulled back like 18th, 17th, 18th, 19th um inQs, and like that's the pullback everyone's been waiting for. Barely wasa pullback. And then on the 19th the market reclaimed. Basically like soldoff and then closed green. And at that same point, you saw like a ton ofreversal candles in the leading names. Um where they undercut support and thenreversed and closed higher. So, at this point, like you're kind of waiting for asign that it's back to risk on and like, all right, green light to buy breakouts.And sometimes, like in the past, I would wait for confirmation. Um but ARM reallywas the first one to break out. So, you get that day on the 19th, you're like,maybe that's the end of the pullback. I don't know. Let's see how the leadingstocks act. And then more specifically, like with ARM, likewhat I've just noticed a lot, um and Ryan, you mentioned the ummoving average of the 10. I look at the 10 EMA.Um and it was opening right at the 10 EMA and immediately bought from the 10,which is just something I see a lot when you get consolidation near those movingaverages and then you get that strength and volume.So, I see that and that was worth nibbling on it, basically, where youstill don't have the confirmation that the market's not done pulling back.This was like the first stock really to break out. Um but then, the way it actedabove the breakout level, too, um was just so impressive.So, like ultimately, for those reasons with the market environment and into theNvidia report, I was grading it an A- minus.Um so, by 2:40, I only had A- minus risk.And then, after the morning momentum phase happened, like and you take a secto really like look back, you're like, that was just insane volume.All-time high breakout. It didn't pull back at all. It held everywhere it needsto. It has a buy program going. Um at that point, I graduated the risk.Um and the rest of the day basically just like tried to get in on dips.Um and add to get to A risk.Um the only caveat would like how it could have been I could havemaybe traded it better and really like crushed it morewas that I was playing it really wide. I was playing it to the low of day ummainly just because that's the true stop in the trade. Um, and you had the videoearnings, but I was kind of curious to ask both of you like you get that big ofan opening drive and I know in the past for melike you almost want to have a higher stop cuz it just made such a big moveand you're like, "Ah, I could probably get away with using a different stop."Perhaps maybe like just 240. Um,but sometimes yeah, I don't know. I found that just always with these swingtrades risking to the true stop stays out of trouble the most.>> Stays out of trouble. And I mean if you look like for me personally I'll I'llusually trail against prior low of day once we get that follow-through. And Imean we still are yet to take out prior low of day. All that being said, youknow, kind of a rule that I have intraday when we do extend an ATR atleast I'm always trimming at you know, 5 10% of the position. So along the wayI'm trimming. Um,but you know, I've made the mistake in the past of trimming on day one of abreakout. Now I try not to do that for example when I'm breakout, you know, Idon't want to be trimming cuz that's day one of a breakout. Um, so I don't wantto be adding umyou know, when we're making new highs because you know, then I'm going tostart mismanaging the trade and I'm going to want to start piecing off alittle bit. So what you were doing buying dips is I think excellent. I alsowanted to say that you know, when you bought and we were holding around the 10around like 226, we're also holding above prior day's high. Um, for methat's usually a trigger to enter on breakouts if we take out prior day'shigh like like similar to what you did buying a starter and then once you takeout the overarching area of resistance on the higher time frame um adding fullsize to that point with the low of day stop.So, very very I mean it's it's interesting. It's it's the same way ofof trading a strategy with somewhat different signs behind it, but it itworks out to be very similar in the end, which is interesting. You are on theweekly chart and and what I love about consolidation breakouts would get me toupgrade to to an AA plus is whenmultiple time frames align. You know, Tim pointed outon a on a weekly chart we broke out of a base and then you had three, four weeksof consolidation on the weekly. You know, you then go down to a daily chart,an hourly chart. Those levels shine through across all time frames. Andespecially when you're a new trader, I thinkbeing able to to to see that and and and visualize it and and visually see it onthe charts will will really make it easier to identify that breakout level,resistance, support, and that's what you want as a swingtrader. You want those those key levels to align across multiple time framesbecause it it it can and it has and it should in a hotstock and a hot sector lead to an explosive move once we, you know,trigger above those levels. >> Tim, to your question, I've been findinga lot more success lately really paying attention to thatthat point that was basically baked into your question about where to put thestop and how to manage it because I've been finding more success stickingto the real stop and just recognizing the grade of the trade and just riskingmore with that wider stop, right? It's a cleaner structure because you'rethinking about where did it inflect from for my trade.Right? And I want the stop below there. I don't do as well if I'm tightening thestop because I think I'm seeing something something intradayand then that gets me into a mode of like trading in and out of what isreally just something that's acting totally fine. Umso I would rather risk more with the wider stop on these swing trades atleast as a default. And really in my process, and this ispart of the review, is um really differentiating betweenwhat would be like an intraday sort of momentum pattern scalp that might belike a day trade and like a true swing trade and and really having a differentprocess for each because just because it's holding some intraday afternoonlevel doesn't mean it can't dip below thereand reclaim and and the swing trade is totally still intact. So,when I get upside down trying to overtrade something like that and then Ilook back and I'm just like, well, this was just great the whole time. That'swhere I get in trouble. So, I would rather actually justeven if I have to risk a little bit more, just give it that wider stop. Youcan always reduce on like a bad close, right? Or ifit starts to act like not the way you expected.You know, you can you can incorporate rules, I think, to to kind of likereduce your size if you're paying attention to that that EVexpanding or or contracting. >> I think that makes a ton of sense.And if I could ask another question, I think this could be kind of fun.We mentioned ONDS and like I'm looking at it now, great day one. Um but I wouldargue that's not even close to as good as ARM. Um and I'm curious how you guyslook at both of those trades and compare them in terms of the checks and favorsfor this setup. >> One 100% agree. Um you know, first ofall, and and similar to, you know, what did piggyback off off of Garrett's umcomment earlier, there's while we had a catalyst today,um not a groundbreaking catalyst yet, maybe it turns into one, but for now Idon't believe it is. Um there isn't majorum excitement unbelievably bullish sentiment going onin the sector. We haven't seen, you know, explosivemoves in recent months. O N D S, I mean, it's it's just it's done nothing but gosideways. But, what's good about that and why forme it's you know, maybe a B grade is because we have nice clean levelsover multiple months, a nice consolidation. We had a catalyst.We're gapping up significantly right near that that key breakout point.And so, for me I got long and I'm still holding some now as as a swing. And andI might look to add back what I've what I've trimmed into the close if we closestrong. But, [clears throat] the difference between O N D S and ARM forme is that ARM, for example, day onebreaking out, you know, don't sell breakouts on dayone. O N D S, it isn't within that A A+ grading. And so, for me and and itdoesn't have, you know, that overarching catalyst and and sentiment and it's notthe talk of the town right now. And so, I'm a little bit more hesitantto to be swinging the bat. And so, for me that's why when weextended a full ATR on average, you know, the ATR now is onepoint over the last 14 trading days.So, when we traded into 13, I was already trimming.And now I'm just holding a small core as of right now with a stop at low ofday and I'll trail that from tomorrow. Umbut yeah, with with something like this, definitely not A+ and and I'm looking toto lock in profits, turn it into a into a risk-free trade per se,and then just let it run. You know, either we get two, three daysof extension or it stops me out. >> To add a small nuance to that picture asto why these might belong in different bucketsin my view is is the short interest component becauseyou know, O N D S I think has what are they, like 20, 25% short interest? Ithink um you know, a number of these drone nameshave higher short interest. It creates a different dynamic to me becauseyou have something like ARM in like what you identified was a completely hungrytheme that's institutionally involved. Like there are institutions that aregoing to want to be buying ARM and and all of its brothers and sisterswhen that theme is hot. The drone thing is is a lot morespeculative. It's a lot less developed. And so I think given that high shortinterest and given the volume that these are doing today,that's the kind of thing that can create that like one or two day squeeze.Am I going to project that into like a full trend on the daily chart the way Imight with something like ARM? Probably not. Like I'm probably notgoing to be thinking as much of atrend trade and maybe a little bit more of a tactical like if I see the volume,if I see it hold, okay, maybe this can have a really big day one, maybe itfollows through on day two. But it kind of stops there for me umwith that particular bucket. Yeah, that makes a ton of sense.And ONDS also um still on the daily um in the middle of the range. So I feellike that's another time that makes sense totrade it as like I don't know, being able to sell on day one when it is stillmid-range. I want to talk about the environment fora second because Ryan, you said somethingin the beginning that I want to kind of go back into and and get deeper intobecause I think it's, you know, you kind of passed over it because you're justused to thinking about it, but I again, I think it's like super importantsimilar to what we were talking about stock selection.Um our one uh our team leader Kay Fitsyou know, the team that Tim and I have been on since we since we started at thefirm. He's a great swing trader.Um one of the things that he always talks about is the environment. What healways says like the environment's everything.And to him and I don't want to like I'm just goingto oversimplify his process cuz he's not here. So forgive me, K fits, if you'rewatching this, but uh umto to him, it's like if he has the environment in check,he's not nearly as worried about his particular entries.And when things fire, he wants to be long.And when the environment is murky and not favorable,he's just sitting on his hands. And so, rather than being so caught up inperfection, which I think is kind of a death trap for a lot of traders,he's really letting the environment dictate how he's operating. And I'm justwondering how Ryan, you kind of work the environment factor into your process forthese swing trades. >> I honestly [clears throat] I I I thinkyou already you said it so well. I think you answered your own question that it'sso- something that something that I place a lot of emphasison. And and K fits is right and K fits is,you know, he's one of the best swing traders of the firm and I've actuallylearned a ton from him as well. Um 100% right and and I do a a similar thing.When when the environment's hot and things are working, um you can afford tobe a little bit looser with your entries. Um for me, the stop alwaysremains the same because it's always where I'm wrong in the trade. Um andI'll enter if it still makes sense from a risk-reward perspective, even if I'm abit looser and not too perfect on that. If the risk-reward still makes sensebased on where I'm wrong, that's fine. Um but what I I I I kind ofplace a lot of emphasis on when it comes to the environment,we can all look at the indexes. We can all look at spy Q, you know,S&P 500 and and we can very quickly see whether or not we're in a strong bulltrend, the correction if we're above key moving averages, and and if sentiment'shot across certain leading sectors like technology. That's easy to do. What'shard for me to do, um and and it's a real skill, is to very quicklybe able to identify when breakouts and follow through begin to stall a littlebit. So, like a good example was I I can't give you the exact month, but Ithink it was like October, November last year.Um or maybe it started in September. AndAnd we first saw I believe it was first that we saw and Ican look on the chart now, but I don't want to waste any of your time. I thinkwe first saw crypto begin to fail on a breakout. I think it was Bitcoin thatfailed first. Yeah, so Bitcoin failed that September, October, whichever itwas, but it was Bitcoin. Um and so crypto failed. And And for me at thetime that was quite a good barometer on on speculation and people's riskappetite. And so that's how I was judging the environment. Like, okay,Bitcoin just massively failed that that breakout. Interesting. Next up was umthe a really hot sector at the time, which was quantum.Quantum failed miserably. Um So, we had Bitcoin, we had quantum, andthen I can't remember the third sort of domino that fell at the time. Um but wehad a ton of false breakouts and failed follow-through to the upside. And soimmediately I was like, okay, it's it's it's it's it's risk off. I'm I'm notbuying breakouts right now um because we've seen, you know, dozens ofleading names within these themes fail on their all-time high or 52-week highbreakouts. Um now the market was was still, you know, above key movingaverages at the time, um but we were starting to see a lot ofleading names fail on their breakouts. Um and so that's something that I usefor market environments is is just my eyes and ears and and keepingtrack of 20, 30, 40, 50 of the hottest names across all of these sectors andjust monitoring um how they're acting around key levels. Um you know, liketoday, if if if we started to see um some some names within semis um failtheir breakouts or fail to follow through, that would be sort of the firstred flag. Maybe we're going to take a little bit of a breather. If we startedto lose the moving averages um in some of the sector ETFs, it would be a littlebit of a red flag. So on and so forth. And so in in a market like this, that'swhat I'm I'm mostly kind of focused on for that.>> Does your I'm glad that you mentioned the failed breakout dynamic.Um I'm just going to explain really really brieflymy three-part process for this because you just described one of the three.>> I would >> I'd love to hear it.>> I'm interested to hear what you think about this. And this is something that Igo over in our in Tim when Tim and I do the mentorship program and and insideaccess because people are always asking about the environment. And you hear alot of chatter on on X about breadth and market internals and all of that kind ofstuff. >> Have you heard this study of tens ofmillions of traders which shows that only 1% of retail traders actually makeit? Don't be a statistic. Visitsmbtradingfloor.com to greatly increase your odds.>> I break it into three buckets because I think that they're all very different.So, breadth would be one of them. Another one would be risk appetite. Andso that's like what's the rotation in the market right now? Are our riskierassets or offensive sectors leading or is it, you know, toilet paper and cerealthat's leading the market? Right? Is it health care?That's going to give you a clue as to what the risk appetite is. Like youpointed out, crypto being like a really good barometer for risk appetite. Andthen the third bucket would be what I just call market behavior, which iseverything you just described. Failed breakouts, how are stocks acting on goodnews? How are stocks acting on bad news? Right? Cuz some In some markets, goodnews is sold. In some markets, good news rips. And it's the environment that isthe difference there. So, to get a little bit deeper into that,because everyone loves talking about breadth, and I mean I've studied it alot. Like Tim knows this, right? But I'm I'm very adamant about like you haveto understand when breath matters. Like you can't get hung up on it. Like ifthat's the only thing you're looking at, you can really fall into a trap becausebreath matters a lot on big turns in the market. So like if we havebeen in a bearish regime selling off for weeks, and then all of a sudden we get acatalyst or something flips everything to the upside, one of the things that wewill often see when it's real versus when it's just another rally that'sgoing to get sold into is like a huge surge in breath.And then as that trend matures, like it might be the biggest hottest namescarrying the market. And that's okay because that can last longer than wewant it to. So we shouldn't be, in my opinion, you know, complaining to ourour fellow traders and posting on X like, "Oh my god, like, you know, thethe breath is so bad, but we keep going higher. This doesn't make sense. Likehow can this be?" Because it happens all the time.And then of course >> all the time.>> And then of course at, you know, big like topping patterns in the market,when we're trying to figure out when like a massive sideways, you know,situation is going to resolve to the upside or the downside, that's a momentwhere you can see breath really start to deteriorate, and it might foreshadowsomething. So that's a very like using breath kind of tactically incertain spots, not just all the time as the only thing, I think is reallyimportant. I think that the risk appetite component is very simple. Andthen that it comes down to my favorite bucket, which is the market behaviorone, which you mentioned, and that's why I'm saying this is because I'm glad thatyou mentioned it because it's not something that peopletalk about. And it's very simple. It's like are breakouts working?Right? Like how are stocks acting to good news or bad news? Soum So that's that's my process for marketenvironment. Do you, uh, do you agree?>> I completely agree and and I actually I I I, you know, I I I think youyou summed it up perfectly. Um, you definitely place a bit more emphasis,um, in areas that I don't, for example, market breadth. Um,but after this, I'm going to reach out to you because I would love toincorporate a little bit more of that into my process.>> Great. Let's do it. Um, well, while we're Well, we're sowe're talking about setups and you've mentionedbuying breakouts, which is the thing that we're talking about now cuz it'sworking. Um, you originally mentioned the meanreversion setup, which I think is is ironic because that is also somethingthat will appear in hot environments because stocks have to get up there inthe first place, right? Um, >> Exactly.>> So, I want to kind of stay with the with thelong setup idea that we're talking about, but one thing that really struckme and our conversation off camera, andsomething that Tim and I have been working on,is the difference between a breakout swing trade and acontinuation swing trade because earlier on, Tim and I kind ofeither lumped these in the same bucket or or kind of didn't have a continuationplaybook and we were just looking for breakouts and then over time we startedto realize that these are two very different setupsthat can be employed in the same environment. So, can you talk about thedifference between those two? >> 100% you're you're totally right. And Iactually Tim almost discussed the setup earlier,um, when he said, you know, surfing the 10-day or surfing the 20-day. And andand and he used that that that word and thatterm and and that for me is the best way to describe a continuation trade, um,because you're essentially surfing that trend. Um,now, I like to use the 10-day, the 20-day anda good example and then we we spoke about off camera um, is Nevias. So,if you pull up Nevias for for for everyone watching, if you look at theNevias chart, you know, we had a beautiful breakout.Um multi multi month consolidation, webroke out in April, you know, and and prior to that we hadtwo significant catalysts. In March, we held up well during thatmarket downturn. We remained above the 200-day, and then we had that breakout.Um through 140. So, you know, the breakout you know,transpired, but going back to what we spoke aboutearlier, hot stock um relative strength to its peers in agreat sector, overall markets acting well.But, you know, let's say, you know, I'm not involved on that breakout. I I wasinvolved. I hold this for several months, but let's say I wasn't involved,and I was looking to enter because I believe the stock could havecontinuation to the upside. What am I looking to do?So, for me, umI'm not going to repeat myself too much, but again, you know, for for for the newtrader here listening, I'm not doing this if the stock haspreviously not shown any momentum or hasn't broken out and isn't showingclear relative strength to its peers. I'm not looking for continuation then.But, this checked all of those boxes. So, how am I looking to get involved?I'm looking for the stock to pull back into its rising 10 or 20-day movingaverage depending on the stock that that you're you're focused on and watching.And I'm looking for it to find support into that key area, remain above or findsupport at the previous breakout spot, in this case around 140. All right, soit checks back in at higher time frame resistance. That resistance now turnsinto new found support, for example. We also find support at, you know, therising 10 20-day moving average, Um, and we confirm a higher low when we take outthe prior day's high or the prior week's high, for example. Um, for me that, youknow, is is is the signal then to enter when we take out that short-term um,area of of of interest over the last day, two days, or three days. And thenthat higher low is confirmed within a developing uptrend. Um, and then lookingfor continuation over over multiple days or weeks, depending on on your um, timeframe. Um, but for me that is a continuation trade. The stock's brokenout, you're not in it, you're looking for ways to get in it. How you going toget in? You're going to look for a higher low within a new found developinguptrend. Um, so how I do that is I use the 10 or 20-day um, as a entry um,spot and zone. Um, and so I'm I'm sure there there there other ways to look forcontinuation. I'm curious if you guys um, look for continuation entry, youknow, using other indicators. Um, but that's kind of how I look at it.>> That makes a ton of sense. Garrett, you traded Invidia as well, differently, Ithink. >> I did. Yeah, and it's funny that youlike I kind of used the the context of the setup that you just outlined,accepted the fact that I missed it. And I think with that context, you cansay, "Okay, well, this is activated. Like this is this should be on the wayback up." Um,and and I just want to quickly give a shout-out to Brian Shannon because he'salways talking about defining these key levels using moving averages or VWAPs.And one of his sayings is is don't buy the dip, buy thestrength after the dip. And that's exactly what you're describing withwaiting for that reclaim or waiting for that that candle to take out uh, like aprior high and and close back above the moving average. So we got that inInvidia. That kind of put it on the radar. I was like, "Okay, well, I'm notin it." And it really went on the radar on day two after it reclaimed. And sothis would be um on>> 4th of May. >> Yeah, the 4th.So on that day, I noticed that on some of our scanners that define relativestrength, this was like the strongest stock in themarket on that day. You know, in terms of just, you know,mid mid to large cap names exhibiting umexuberance, this this was number one. And it took out that prior high, closedall-time highs. Now, again, I'm not in it. It's made abig 2-day move. Um but the market is starting to actreally hot. We're in an upturn. I want to be watching the strongest names. Sosometimes I will be thinking about the swing tradethat's in existence right now, that's working, and kind of compute the factthat, okay, like this is a leader that's probably going to find its wayhigher because this is a good trade that I'm not in.Now, I don't want to just chase it and just do something dumb,but there are certain tactical trades that sometimes I'll I'll maketo get involved in as a way to just trade something that's a leader likethis that's breaking out. And soafter that day two thatwas defined as the strongest stock in the market, there's an intraday setupthat sometimes I'll trade after a stock either had a day onecatalyst, that's probably the best example of it, but or like in this casewith Enphase, showed that it was the strongest stockin the market. Often the day after that, those prior day levels hold in themorning after like a pull-in, and it will like resume trend because it's justso strong. And so again, another shout-out to Brian Shannon, like you canlook at 2-day view app levels, you can look at the prior dayum afternoon levels if it held somewhere, and there are different waysobviously to frame this trade. But essentially, looking at the chart in theprior day, and I remember talking in the morningmeeting. I'm just like, if this pulls in the to 170 this morning, I think, youknow, if it does it really quickly and reclaims aggressively, I think that's ascreaming buy. Cuz I think it kind of comes back and takes out highs.And so, it did that, came right flash down to 170 and was bought like crack,immediately. And of course, I didn't buy the low, cuz you got to see it getbought. But it got it got bought so hard that I bought some against that lowwith the idea that again, like I don't have the perfect swing trade entry. Thisis kind of an intermediate-term setup. So, if I if this thing makes a new hightoday or tomorrow and has some a bit of momentum, like I just want to kick thattrade out. Cuz again, like I'm seeing this as like a tactical trade versuslike some super robust swing trade entry. And so, it went sideways for therest of the day, held above that 170, and then it was the following day thatit followed through and and had a nice green candle, in which case I just soldeverything. So, that's how I traded Enphase.>> That's excellent. I mean, that I would say that's a that's a lot more nuancedthan even advanced um in terms of a continuation entry. I would say it's Imean, would you agree that that that that, you know, that takes a lot ofskill in terms of a continuation entry andalso to to be able to recognize the time frame in which you're looking to holdit. Um as opposed to, you know, getting confirmation, which might be a littlebit easier for beginners um when you get a dip into a rising 10-day, you youknow, you reclaim the prior day's high, for example. I think what what what youexplained, in my opinion, is is a lot more umtakes a little bit more skill, a little bit more nuance, um a little bit morediscretion to to pull off as cleanly as you did in a name that was volatile atat at those levels. >> Yeah, I don't it's not a beginner setup.I think it helps a lot that I already had that kind of like day two pull-intrade in my playbook, which I've traded probably in in in better situations thanthis. Um and I kind of use that to apply to this setup to get involved, butI also think that thethe overlay of the environment and what was happening that day like cannot beundervalued in this situation. Like I don't want to describe this setup andwhat I did and then have people think that oh okay, like anytime a stock isstrong, I can then like buy a dip in the morning afterwards and then kick it outtwo days later. Like >> Yeah, no, there's a lot more context.>> The that was the tactic, but yeah, you also had to feel that like overwhelmingsense that we were in the midst of like a one two three day exuberance in themarket. And we really were. This is where everything was breaking out andeverything that was strong was showing continued strength. Sowithout that overlay of like I mean, it was one of those moments where like I'msure you guys get this feeling sometimes where it was like oh my god, I just needto find stuff to buy. And it it only last maybe a couple days, but it waslike during one of those moments. And so I was literally like using this setup aslike just a way to buy something that was strong because I think that that wasright for like that one to two three day period.>> Totally agree. And and those feelings when you look around and everything'sbreaking out and you're just trying to buy as much as you can and those are thebest feelings ever. I mean, those are the best environments to trade.>> Yeah, they are. That's when trading's most fun.>> 100%. I will have to say I think Ryan'sexecution might have been a little a little simpler.>> Yeah, I would I mean, I would have much rather have taken Ryan's trade to behonest with you. Cuz like when I'm doing that too, I'm not this is not an A+setup. This is like a tactical trade where I'm just kind of risking anappropriate amount for like kind of like a day day trade style that that lasts acouple days. >> I was going to say it transitions intothe last and final um step to start swing trading, which is you have to havea system to manage the trades. Which I think that was a great example.Two different um entries for a continuation play and they both neededdifferent systems for managing the trade. Umand you guys kind of already touched on it, but I wanted to just mention thefourth step. Yeah, I mean Ryan likeDo you use anything other than like prior day lows for trailing these stops?Like you you mentioned that, but do you change it?>> yeah, prior day's low So it all depends like umyou know, if I'm trade if I'm if I'm swing um long or or short in in a smallcap or low float, I'm not going to trail against prior day's low or prior day'shigh. Um why? Because you know, prior day's low might be 50 70% lower ifI'm in if I'm long in a small cap. Um so in that case it's all it's all dependson the stock that you're trading. Like for small caps um and shout out to BrianShannon as well. I'm usually using a multi-day VWAPyou know, from day one or just key areas of support. So a little bit more, youknow, price action chart related for smallcaps. Um for mid to large caps for swing trading, I'm I'm typically alwaystrailing um if I'm long against prior day's low or I'm trailing against the10-day um or 20-day SMA. Depends entirely on the setup and and and thepoint in which I bought it. Um in its simplest form that's that's how Itrail for a for mid to large caps. >> So it varies based on setup, which Ithink is completely appropriate and Tim and I use the anchored VWAP fromlike an earnings release a lot of times for like earnings day one swings becauseit really should hold that line in the sand and then of course when it getsextended if it gets extended from there which it it will if it's if it worksreally well then at that point you kind of need to start using like the movingaverages or or prior day low or something like that but in early on inthe trade and I'm not talking day one um but once once that day two occurslike starting to use that that trailing anchored VWAP is is a really good systembecause Tim and I have studied like many many of these trades and and all of thegood ones cleanly hold it and at least close on a closing basis will close backabove. >> And that takes the question INOD beenhovered around the anchored VWAP for the last like two weeks and it's closedbelow. Um looks like it reclaimed now butthat's part of it where you know you take your stop you have your system andyou move on. >> Yeah cuz you're never going to outsmartthe system. >> That's true and I need those rules toprotect myself from myself is what I've learned. Um Tim one question for youbefore we sign off because I think this is a great trade management thing that Inoticed in your trading over the last few weeks. Um you've you've beenswinging a lot of stuff and I think it it felt like in the beginning of themonth cuz I hear you on the call and we're discussing this stuff and I couldI could sense a shift in the way you were managing these trades from thebeginning of the month to the end of the month. And can you kind of describe thatprocess because it seems like it wasn't like a quantitative strategy differenceit was more of like a maturetrend difference. >> Umare you talking about kind of um like where I'm putting the stops and beingwider that kind of aspect? >> Well so so what I noticed was that inthe beginning when you when the market was just breaking out, you were youreally using trailing stops and looking at longer time horizons for theseswings. >> Oh, I know what you're talking>> As the as the trend in the market became a bit more mature, a bit more extended,you were still finding fresh breakouts. But I remember you saying, "You know,I'm not really sure how long this is going to last. I think I'm going to belooking to kick these things out a lot quicker now that the market hasexperienced like 2 3 4 weeks of of moving higher.">> Yes. Yeah. So, again, we're giving shout-outs this whole episode. Um and itshows you, you know, we're learning all the time.Um but I've been talking more with Kfitz, who we mentioned.Um and he has a phrase that he told me that since pretty much all of May hasbeen in my head, but it's last in, first out. So, if you're buying the ceasefirebeginning of April, you're looking for big moves. You want to try to stay infor those entire moves. So, you're trailing it with like a moving average,and you're really trying to hold. But like when we get so extended in themarket, like kind of like basically where we started May, like there wasstuff breaking out. Like I had a trade in the optics names, um like beforetheir earnings. But at that late stage, you're extended in the market, any ofthose new buys, you don't want to be married to if the market pulls back. So,those last ones that you're buying, if they don't work good, if they're notacting great, like I was just much quicker to cut them. So, like examplesof that, too, even like I had a trade in the datacenters with BE Well, BE's not data center, but BE, Hut,APLD. Um and that was when they like failed um5/13. Basically, they like had a quick littleum consolidation after their earnings gaps, and I was trying to play for thatearnings range break. And I was like anticipating those buys.They couldn't break above the level. Like rather than hold them back to thelow, like the consolidation low, I cut them the next day.Like super quick. So like all the time I was buyingYou did? Yeah. Also, that's a It's a tricky one. It It's a tricky name.But yeah, I like was buying like 300s in that. And I remember like I was addingwhen it got close to 310. And then the next day it broke the prior bar low andjust got out. But that not isn't necessarily like ifyou're early to a trend um and some people call like the powertrends, like some of the Bill O'Neil guys. Like I feel like then it makessense to be like, all right, I'm risking to the consolidation low. Like I'm notgoing to like just cut one a quick failure at a higher like a pause at aresistance happens. But yeah, I've noticed in termsof peace of mind, too. It really helps cuz likein the past, like I've gotten in the It's almost like a fallacy I feel likewith traders. But saying, "Ah, the market's too extended. You can't buybreakouts anymore." And then you just see breakouts continue to break out.And you're like you're never going to know how extended an extended market cango. Um but what you could do is have a tightleash. >> Yeah.I like that. And I think that's the move as we keepgoing forward. >> Yeah, I mean, keep We'll see stuffbreaking out. >> Keep that kind of communication going inthe chat cuz it helps me to hear how you're shifting your your focus as well.Because it's easy to not, you know, pay attention to to some like nuance thatchanges like that where you you might be wanting to attack things differently.And it's very easy to give back a lot of what you made like at the endof a move when everything just pulls back or unwinds.>> Exactly. At some point like you just and Cave Fits talks about thistoo a ton. Like you just don't want to get the rug pulled out from you.Like you had a great month, you've had a ton of good trades, and then like onebig 2% market day and you lose everything.Cuz you didn't take any scales. You didn't like raise your stops. You'restill like being wide with stuff. >> Amen.It's happened to me. >> It's happened to me.And what it happens to with like not like prop firms are different, but likethere's a ton of people out there retail traders that trade on margin. Like a tonof margin. And like those are the days those 2% days for the margin guys couldcrush them. Like >> Yeah. Which if we're doing a beginner toswing trading, like margin is a good way to like capitalize. Probably stay awayfrom margin in the beginning. >> 100% 1,000%>> Back test, trade on the demo, trade with very small sizeum until the results are there to to give you the confidence to size up andactually risk anything meaningful. >> Yeah, I mean like we don't risk morethan we want to lose. So I mean I wouldn't even say anyone here trades onmargin if that's you know what I mean. LikeObviously like sometimes things happen um like adverse news overnight, but youknow otherwise it's like you know what you're risking. That'sthat's the bottom line. >> To add to it too Ryan, I'm curious umcuz I mentioned that like last in first out. Do you think similarly to to thatum when markets get extended? >> Yeah, very similarly to that. I mean soI'll do I'll everything you said 100% agree with. Andthen single stock focus as well. Um you know if if I'm trying to buy abreakout in a name that's already 50 to 100% above its 200-day moving averageand we've already had maybe one or two legs above it. Um then I have a tighterleash. Umif I'm buying a breakout on a stock that's consolidating, you know,10 20% above its 200-day and a converging short-to-mid-term movingaverages, then I I'm I'm happy to risk to the low of that consolidation. Um soit also depends, you know, for that individual stock where we are within itswithin its cycle essentially. Um so the overall market as well as theindividual stocks sort of life cycle, too.>> Makes a ton of sense. Well,>> I like it. >> Ryan, thanks for joining us, man. Like II don't We'll definitely have you on again if you're willing because I hadway too much fun to not do that. >> We could go for an hour or>> enjoyed it. >> I don't care if people hate you in thecomments. We're We're just going to have you on again.>> They probably will. >> [laughter]>> No way. Thank you, though, Ryan. This was a lot of fun. And I learned a lottoday, so. >> I learned a lot from both of you. Ienjoyed being on and hopefully back again soon.>> All right, guys. Have Have a great rest of the week.See you in the next >> Cheers, guys. You, too.