I was at a point I remember my kids
asking me, "Dad, why does Santa Claus
never bring me what I want?" My wife
saying, "Why do we have to eat ramen
noodles every single day? Why do we have
to eat spaghetti with sauce every single
day?" What was the most amount of money
that you made in a single year? About
11.3 million. If you don't sacrifice for
your dreams, your dreams become the
sacrifice. The question is, you have to
ask yourself, are you okay with
mediocracy?
>> Something that I find fascinating is you
have a nth grade education. So many
people bring up Josh, you have no GED or
equivalent, no high school diploma, no
college degree, but you can sit in a
Harvard boardroom and teach. You've had
a lot of success in the digital
marketing sphere. For those that are
listening, how can they craft really,
really solid offers? So, one of the
biggest piece of advice, and it's free
to do, quick to implement, and will
change your life and trajectory of your
business profitability in any niche or
vertical is to start. What's your last
message to the younger generation?
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we've got an
incredible guest for you all today. We
are sitting down with one of the
greatest internet marketers of your
generation, of my generation. We're here
with Joshua Chris. Joshua, it's great to
be with you, man. You you went from, you
know, bath bombs made you a millionaire.
You sold tons of products, found winning
products online. You've consulted for
some of the biggest brands in the world
and ultimately built an empire in the
e-commerce space and have become one of
the greatest, most renowned uh internet
marketers of our generation. So, we're
very happy to have you with us today,
>> my man. Super excited to be here. Just
blessed by the best. Appreciate you.
>> But before we get into things, man, I
want to go back, right? Cuz you didn't
go to college. N
>> you didn't even finish high school.
>> Nope.
>> Ninth grade education.
>> I know you said a ninth grade education.
>> So, you know, you get through school,
you know, you have a family. There was a
point in time where you were struggling
to provide for your family. What was
Joshua Chris moment of I'm tired of of
of being sick and tired. What was that
moment like for you and and that turning
point in your life to financial freedom?
>> Yeah. So, I'll never forget it actually.
And and for those of you this is longer
format, so you want to make sure you
have a piece of paper, a pencil, iPad,
something to take notes with. Note
takers or money makers. Let me tell you,
you will not like a a short a short
pencil is better than a sharp mind. So,
please make sure you're taking notes. I
vividly remember the turning point in my
career because there's a saying that
emotion creates motion, right? You don't
get to the next level until you're sick
and tired of the current level.
>> You're getting us started already, man.
Come on. Just get right into it early
on.
>> Hey, just for everybody that's too
aggressive, mother.
>> No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hey, for
everybody listening right now, when he
said get that paper out, get it out. You
are going to write down some gems.
Continue.
>> Get it out. Absolutely. So, so again a
short pencil is better than a sharp mind
and emotion creates motion. You will
never get more momentum in your life or
in your business to when you can
genuinely say I am pissed off. I am sick
of this. In fact, my friends that know
me that are great marketers, business
owners, when they see I'm upset, they
get excited because when I'm upset,
magic happens, right? So, first and
foremost, too many people in business
have a gambling mindset or mentality. I
have a good job. I have a good career. I
have something to fall back on. and I
have a plan B and they don't go all in.
Right? Tony Robbins says if you want to
take the island to burn the boat. So I
was at a point I remember my kids asking
me, "Dad, why does Santa Claus never
bring me what I want?" My wife saying,
"Why do we have to eat ramen and noodles
every single day? Why do we have to eat
spaghetti with sauce every single day?
Like all you're doing is working.
There's no money. What are we going to
do?" And I remember that point, that
conviction of feeling not like a man,
not like a father, not like a provider.
And at that moment in time, I told
myself that I'm going to do anything and
everything needed in order to be a
provider and to do better for my family.
Right? So, first and foremost,
regardless of where you are, even in
business, that's rock bottom, right? And
the whole story is from nothing to
something from 725 to seven figures.
That's what I'm known for. At that time,
we were living in a one-bedroom
apartment. My rent was 375. I was
getting help. I couldn't pay my rent,
and I was working non-stop. Why? I was a
felon at 18, no high school diploma, and
I was working at a recycling plant for
725 an hour. And I remember vividly
having that same emotion, that same
frustration then and then also then at
sub 10 million per year. Why? Why am I
stuck here? Why am I not growing? And
that same frustration, that same emotion
is what catapulted me when I was stuck
later on at sub 10 million per year. So
that's a very, very key lesson.
>> So you were working a temp job, right?
basically just sorting through trash,
stuff like that. How did you kind of
take that leap into knowing getting
started in entrepreneurship?
>> Yeah. When did you realize you weren't
going to get rich working for someone
else?
>> So, here's the thing. It like if you
man, this this is so crazy. Like, I
cannot make this up, right? It's
actually in my book that I that I
published this story. So, I'm going to
try to really scan over this, but it's a
deep story. So, I was working at a TEP
agency. It was called Spartan Staffing.
The reason why I was working at a staff
agency is because I had no high school
diploma, no GED or equivalent and I was
a felon, aka nobody wanted to hire me. I
was a POS and I had to do whatever jobs
no one else wanted to do. So on the
bottom of all plastic, there's a
triangle with a number that's a
recyclable grade in quality. In this
recycling plant, there's no machines or
technology or AI currently or at that
time that can decipher a Pepsi can from
a water bottle and then put them in
different bales. Right? So, I was hand
sorting trash with my bare hands. Taking
these bottles, putting them in different
buckets, right? I'm talking about like
poop, used condoms, the worst of the
worst. To give you a visual, um, it was
a 50,000 foot building. I was working
for minimum wage, which is 7:25 an hour.
I was working 12:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
night shift.
>> How old at this point?
>> At this point, I was,
let me see, 2015, 10, I was 30 or no, I
was 23 turning 24.
So,
I was doing whatever whatever it took,
right? And too many of us like you need
to understand you need to do whatever it
takes. At any point in your level in
your life, even when you're successful,
you have to do whatever it takes. So,
what happened is I just got out of jail.
I'm working there and I'm frustrated,
but I'm showing up with a smile. And
here's something that I've always done.
I didn't learn this. I don't know what
happened in my mind, but hopefully you
can take away from this.
every single situation I try to improve
or learn from. And maybe it came from my
mom always tell me when I was young that
son, if you can always find a positive
from a negative, there'll never be a
negative. Man, why is this happening to
me? Man, this sucks. Man, this instead
of why is this happening to me? Maybe
it's happening for you. Because what
does not break you, you will break
through, right? And tough times don't
make successful people, right? I mean,
tough times make what what is the saying
I'm looking for? Um,
>> tough times don't last, tough people do.
>> Exactly. And then then there's another
one. Um,
>> easy times create uh weak men and then
hard times create strong men.
>> Exactly. I was butchering it because
easy choices, hard life. Hard choices,
easy.
>> I also one where it's like uh life is
10% what happens to you and 90% how you
react to it.
>> There it goes. So all those and that's
why I was like choking because there's
so many good ones around that. But that
was the whole mindset. So, I'm showing
up. I'm smiling. It's terrible. It's
miserable. I'm not making any money. Um,
I meet my wife now, girlfriend at the
time, through a mutual friend. So, on my
break, I go to visit her and I'm just
hanging out and it's a little office
about the size of this podcast studio
and she's taking orders online and the
owner of the business is sitting here at
a normal desk, normal clothes, feet up,
taking sales calls, marketing. And I was
fascinated because he owned his own
business. That was when I was exposed to
and you cannot grow to what you're not
exposed to. I never knew that normal
people like us could be business owners.
I didn't know that. I generally did not
know that. A lot of people don't know
that, right? Until I was exposed to
that. But the beautiful thing about your
mind is once it's it's expanded to a new
level of thinking, it can never be
contracted to its original form of
thinking. So once I I was exposed to
that, I became obsessed. And your
obsessions become your possessions. So I
studied them. I studied them. I studied
him. Long story short, he became my
mentor, right? And the funny part is how
life works, right? He became my partner
and I blew his business up making myself
a millionaire. 725, rent 375, son
sleeping in the onebedroom, we're
sleeping on an air mattress in the
living room with a shower curtain in the
living room. Like, we were pitiful poor.
We were so poor that poor people felt
pitifully for us. How poor I was.
Literally. Literally, I didn't. I was
doing anything and everything. didn't
have a computer. Would walk to the
library. Um, we blew his we we blew his
business up so far that we so fast and
so much we had to expand to a new
building. That building was the
recycling plant that I worked at for 725
per hour hand sorting through trash. I
remember asking for a $1 raise and the
boss said no because you unfortunately
you're you work hard, you do a terrible
job, you smile, you're positive.
However, there's there's nothing else
that you could do. You don't have the
skill set. So that was the last time
that I would ever allow another man or
anyone other than God to tell me what
I'm worth, right? And that's pretty much
how it worked. And the rest is history.
And and and one of the takeaways and cuz
you know I worked at Chick-fil-A, he
worked at Chick-fil-A for 725, you know,
when you when you look back and you
think on it, it's like, is an hour of my
time really worth $725?
>> It's absolutely it's absolutely insane.
Here's the thing. too many people and
there's nothing wrong with having a job
if that's what you want but you know a
job is an acronym that stands for just
above broke right and and a and and a
salary is the price that they pay for
you to forget about your dreams you know
the rest if the
>> golden handcuffs
>> if you don't sacrifice for your dreams
your dreams become the sacrifice so you
the question is you have to ask yourself
are you okay with mediocracy and just
getting a just getting by or do you know
that you're called to do more be more be
great and serve others which I generally
believe that everyone should have some
type of business or business interest
even if they don't think they're an
entrepreneur because it is the easiest
way to generate additional revenue,
right? Because you don't get paid direct
in direct proportion to how long you
went to school or what test you've
passed. You get paid in direct
proportion to the value that you can
bring. So what comes easy to you and
hard to others? Everyone has a story,
right? And you need to turn your mission
into, you know, your mission can turn
you into a missionary. M.
>> So for me it was um for me it was all of
that resiliency and literally what I
thought was a ball and chain right was
really my gift right and you know God
will never put you in a situation that
you can't get out of right and you know
the saying and I just told my children
this the other day. Every new level
there's a new devil and every season has
a reason. So, if you're going through
something and you think that you can't
get out, you think that you're stuck,
you think that you're broken, you think
that you're broke, you think that it's
not fair, it's actually happening to
you. It's happening for you. It's not
happening to you, it's happening for
you. And all you have to do is change
your mind. If you change your mind, you
change your life. Hey, instead of
thinking negatively about this, because
the thing about negativity is it expands
like a cancer at a rapid pace. Once you
start negativity, you then lead to
conviction around a negative outcome,
which then allows you to to lower your
level of thinking, your standards, your
self-confidence. And in result, you do
worse. So what is becoming the best
version of yourself? Doing great in all
areas in a pursuit of greatness in all
areas. Health, h health, wealth, and
happiness. So for me, the strategy like
even when I went to jail, I was
terrified. I went to jail 3 hours away
from home. No one came to visit me. I
knew no one there. There was, you know,
people fighting every single day. Like
serious criminals there. And I'm just a
guy with no father, no, you know, no
real support, no mentor, just trying to
make some money to provide for my
family. My mother was a a single mother.
We were struggling. And I'm terrified.
But I always found a way to come up with
a positive outcome or a positive lesson
from a negative circumstance. And that's
one of the biggest pieces of advice that
again my mother gave me. couldn't teach
me anything about credit or business,
but that one specific thing. If you
could turn any negative into a positive,
you'll never have a negative. I took
that and I still run with it today. So,
you meet your mentor and you become
obsessed with this is like an
opportunity I've never seen before and
you're exposed to something that it can
become even greater. What did those next
steps look like? Did you guys start a
business together? Did you just learn
from him originally for the first couple
months or years? What are that what were
those next steps?
>> This is so good, man. And I hope you
guys are listening. And mo most
importantly, please, we're going to take
a break. Do not become addicted to
education, allergic to execution. These
guys put out such great content and
there's so much content you can fall
victim to analysis paralysis. So like,
do it now. Now means no opportunities
wasted. That's an acronym. Take action.
Find one thing, take action on, and
implement it. Back to that. Um, this is
huge because somebody's going to grasp
what I'm about to say and it's going to
change their life. First of all, it was
he I wasn't just hanging out here in his
office. He's like, "Hey, Josh, I want to
make you a millionaire. You've got what
it takes." He was a normal guy. First, I
studied, right? I studied and I became
obsessed. I watched every single thing
he did. Number two, so number one,
study, become obsessed. Know what you
want. Number two,
I asked the right questions. You guys
ask the right questions. The more you
learn, the more you earn. And the right
lesson can change your life. Right? So a
skill set today, multiple eight figure
earner, multiple eight figures
generating digital and physical. My
number one attribute is when I'm in the
right room, I ask the right questions.
So I'm in this room, I'm studying him.
Day after day, I'm studying. I become
obsessed. I work up the courage. I come
up with a strategy. I'm going to learn
from this guy. I'm going to figure out
how to do what he does, whatever it is.
I knew nothing about the business. Never
even seen the warehouse at this point.
Started asking the right questions.
All successful people. You have to
understand this. Time is the most
valuable asset that we all have. Why you
guys have interviewed don't get it back.
>> You never get it back. It's a currency
that's spent by the second. And once
it's deposited, there cannot be a
withdraw. It doesn't matter how many
billions of dollars you have, how
successful you are, you can never buy
that time back. So what I've learned, I
call this the breadcrumb breadcrumb
theory. successful people or people that
are successful in any area of their life
when asked a question or when people
want to learn from them or become
mentored by them they will give you a
breadcrumb and I've caught myself doing
this subconsciously even knowing the
power of this like we talked about like
how you guys given the voice to the
public and the courage to go talk to
people like people like me would brush
because they're hey there's no value
here it's a one-sided transaction I'm
just going to call a spade a spade it's
a one-sided transaction there's no value
for me to give you all of my game and
then you're not going to do anything
with it anyway. Like why am I here?
Because number one, I I got an
opportunity. Number two, I took action
on opportunity. Number three, I did
everything I could to go as hard as
possible on the opportunity. That's the
three pieces of success. Um so he gave
me breadcrumbs. Started asking
questions, would teach me a little bit,
kind of kind of cut it off, kept asking
questions. I said, "Listen, this is what
I'm doing right now. This is how much
money I'm making. I want to do more for
my family. I you have given me hope. I
did not know you could be a business
owner and be a normal person. I want to
be a business owner. I want to make more
money for my family.
>> And what was he doing?
>> So he was a bath and body manufacturer.
So he he he did businessto business for
Bath & Body Products. He made Bath &
Body products. People bought from him
and then resold. So um what he ended up
doing is he ended up saying, "Okay,
cool. Well,
I have these products that I can't
sell." They were bath bombs. They were
actually his least sold product at the
time. I have some laying around that are
different colors, fragrances that I
can't sell. Take these, try to figure
out how to sell them. So then I asked
him, I said, "What would you recommend?"
Because I hear you talking. I would sit
here and listen to him on the sales
calls and he would tell everybody,
"Figure out how to sell them online.
It's low overhead, right? It's high
margin, less touch points." That's the
all I ever heard him talk about is less
touch points, high margin. And what
everybody did is they would take the
product and then they would go start a
boutique. They would go start a store.
They would go hire people and start
running Facebook ads. And then three to
six months they'd be out of business and
they wouldn't reorder. For him, he made
money off of reorders, right? Not just
one and done. So when I asked him,
"What's the one thing you would do? One
thing by Gary Keller, that's a book.
What is the one thing you would do?" He
told me, "Figure out how to sell it
online." He was not selling physical
products online retail or business to
consumer. He was doing it businessto
business. His only traffic source was
SEO, search engine optimization. You
type in soap, you type in bath bombs,
he's number one in the world for all
categories. That's how I grew his
business to eight figures. So, I
obsessed over that. In fact, I slept in
the office. I worked non-stop. And I
started with eBay and then Etsy. And the
big the big whale was Amazon. He kept
talking about Amazon. I kept talking
about Amazon. Amazon's going to be the
future. Amazon's going to be the future.
I knew nothing about Amazon. So Etsy,
eBay, Shopify with Google Shopping Ads,
and then I got on Amazon. Well, in 2015,
beginning of 2015, I was one of the top
200 sellers on the platform. When it
wasn't called Seller Central, it was
called Vendor Express. Um, and the rest
is history, man. One product, one skew,
$1 million in sales, less than 12
months, made me a millionaire. Ended up
being his best seller. We scaled like
crazy. The rest is history. I sold
millions of them.
>> But it didn't start out that way. you
had tried a couple times before you had
that successful launch with that third
product or the fourth product. Correct.
>> So when when he tried when he said
Amazon
like I thought the product was stupid. I
didn't use the product, never used the
product. I'm like I can't sell this.
This is stupid. He can't sell it. This
is stupid. So I'm trying other products.
Like as I'm studying Amazon, I'm
learning about product research. There's
a software called Jungle Scout. I'm
looking at other products. I'm scrging
up money trying to launch other
products, right? And I'm launching
products that I think would be a good
market fit. My first one was a USB
dualport car charger. This is 2015. Like
now technology is just crazy. But you
had the big cigarette car charger things
that you plug in with the dual ports. It
was the first product got massacred. But
I'm thinking, okay, what's something
cheap that I can sell for high margin
that everybody needs? I didn't
understand, you know, uh
competitiveness. I didn't understand
market fit. I didn't understand
differentiation and all the different
marketing strategies I did. Um, second
product I launched I tried to launch was
a garlic uh mince uh garlic mincer
device. It's like it looks like a pliers
but you put garlic cloves in it. It
minces garlic. I like garlic. I use it
on everything. It was hard to get fresh
garlic on on meals. It had good search
volume but then again it's hard to
differentiate and provide more value on
such a universal generic product. Right.
Third product was a mat that was sticky
that you could put on the wall or put on
your dash and it was made to hold your
phone or change stuff like that. All of
them failed. They all failed for three
different reasons. Number one, the
charger I beat the supplier to death and
you never want to save money or increase
margin by reducing the quality of your
product. That was the first mistake.
Number one, super saturated competitive
industry and then I made the cheapest
one possible to make the most amount of
money. It was terrible.
>> So the last thing you want to do is
decrease the value of the product. You
never want to profit off of diminishing
the quality of the product. If you're in
manufacturing of a digital of a physical
product or even you you create a digital
product, you never want to profit off of
reducing the quality of your team,
reducing the quality of your product or
reducing the quality of the ecosystem. I
was trying to profit off getting the
highest margin by the lowest cost
product. That is a good strategy. Like
you want to negotiate, but you don't
want the quality to be lower, right? The
second one um second one another another
niche product generic hard to improve
hard to solve a big problem got crushed.
Third one was a trending product. I
never go into trends because trends go
up and just as fast as they go up they
go down. We want sustainability. So now
I use Google trends and you can see the
historical data. How long has it been
selling? What's the search volume? So
that thing went up like this went back
down. Fourth one I did was fidget
spinners. Same thing went up went down,
right? Um, so the first product I made
the million dollars with was the first
product and that's when I listened to my
mentor, went with that product. And
here's the lesson, right? Um,
do not make emotional decisions when it
comes to business. Make data driven
decisions. Even in my digital marketing
business and in my coaching consulting
companies, I never create a product that
I think the audience would like. I
create a product that the audience ask
for. So, one of the biggest piece of
advice and it's free to do, quick to
implement, will change your life and
trajectory of your business
profitability in any niche or vertical
is to start surveying your audience. Go
do that right now. Go to Google forms.
It's free. Number one. Number two, use
chat GBT to create a form. Give it good
prompting, good prompt engineering.
Don't just take the first iteration. Go
two, three iterations deep. Really dive
deep. Really refine it. and create a
survey asking your client and if you
don't have a product yet your potential
client what is your biggest needs what
is your biggest problems what do you see
that the marketplace doesn't have how
can I serve you at the highest level
what do I do good or what do you think I
would do good and ask it very specific
questions and then create a product
around that right so for you put the
bath bombs on Amazon what made you guys
stand out that listing on Amazon on
specifically that you were able to
generate a million in sales.
>> This is so good because it ties into
what we just talked about, right? What
is the problem that I solved? So, the
number one brand in the world retail for
bath bombs is Lush, right? There's one
at the domain, right? Um, and they were
known for the bath bombs. They were the
number one bath bomb retailer in the
world. Why? Because they had a patent on
the bath bombs. But you can't have a
monopoly. It's against the law. So, once
their patent patent was up, it just
happened to be around the time that I
started selling. and that's why he
couldn't sell him, right? Which I didn't
know any of this. Now, again, you can go
to Google patents, check your product,
see if it's patented by another uh
another uh competitor, right? But what I
did and how I was able to crush them. I
was number one in the world. I was
selling hundreds of thousands of dollars
a month, like six figures profit a month
with this product. What I did is again I
ser I created a community, Facebook
community. Step one, free I love bath
bombs. Created the community. I create
then I started to create multiple
communities around that niche and I was
cultivating herds. Once I cultivated the
herds and the reason why herds are
important I'm going to get to in just a
second is because it's multi-dimensional
for marketing. Step one was coming up
with the problem. I call this the big
domino. If you can knock the big domino
the other dominoes follow behind it.
What is the number one thing you guys
want? You know what they all said? Take
a guess. What's the number one thing?
This is a million dollar lesson.
multi-million probably eight figure
eight figure lesson number one thing
that bath and body people want or the
biggest problem or the biggest need the
biggest ask in the bath and body space
specifically around bath bombs I I don't
know I'm going to go with like smell
good like
>> smell good
>> the experience
>> the experience smell good the experience
how long does it last how long does it
last so these are all three valid points
the number one thing that they wanted
was selection
all bath bomb sets were bath bomb sets
meaning the same Six, the same 10, the
same 12.
>> They want a variety.
>> They want variety.
>> That's why Lush did well. You go to
Lush's store, there's 50 of them, right?
The problem is they're 10 to $15 each.
So, okay, people like the sets because
you get a dozen for 25 bucks. It's
cheaper than Lush. They don't like the
They don't like the limited selection.
>> How are the March? They they they wanted
like candles basically like you go to
like candle store.
>> How are the marches on bath bombs?
>> So, I'll get it, but make sure I want
you guys to grasp this. So, once So,
build the community. One, build the
community. Two, survey them. Ask them
again. Gary Keller, the one thing
>> because we're all wrong. We're all
wrong.
>> You guys are all wrong. Yeah. But but
the one thing, what is the one thing I
can do? What is the one problem I can
solve that that'll make all of you guys
happy? Selection qual quantity, right?
Selection um amounts, right? So, what we
did is we created a box where every
single month you get 12 new iterations,
12 new exclusive bath bombs to
Amazon.com.
>> It's like crumble. So now every month,
so now two things happened with that. In
the second one, I didn't even, it makes
me look like a genius, but I didn't even
plan for this at the time. Now I know
about this, but two things happened.
Number one, the sales shot because I
solved the biggest problem in the space.
Solve the biggest problem in the space.
The one thing that you focus on, the
biggest problem in the space. Number
one, I did that. Crushed it. Number two,
I set myself up for the Rolls-Royce of
marketing and sales. You know what the
Rolls-Royce of marketing and sales is?
>> Recurring revenue.
>> Recurring revenue. Now my subscribe and
save, which was recurring revenue, was
shooting up because people knew every
month I was solving their need. They no
longer had to go to Lush. They no longer
had to keep trying new brands. They
liked our quality. They wanted different
iterations every single month. And then
to make things sweeter, I added a free
gift. No one in the platform did it. So
every single month, a new gift, random
gift, a surprise of 20% of the mark
market value of the box or more. So
they're like, "Oh wow, I'm getting $10
free gift every single time." It'd be
soap, lotion, whatever it was. Plus, I
know I'm getting 12 new bath bombs every
single month.
>> So, you're just a legend at making these
offers.
>> So, irresistible offers are important,
but the margins, I didn't want to skip
past your margins. The margins on
retail, so business to B toC, business
to consumer is around 30 to 50%. Right?
20% if you're scaling like crazy and
then you're in Walgreens, CVS, 20, 15 to
20. Um, but on Amazon, your own website,
you can get 30 to 50%. What I find
really interesting about this is it's
not about just the product itself. It's
also about how you make them feel. And I
learned something really interesting the
other day. I was I I'd seen a thread on
Chewy, the dog the dog food brand.
>> Okay.
>> And one of the hardest moments as a dog
owner is when your dog eventually passes
away.
>> And if you are getting recurring, you
know, you get dog food on subscription
every month and you get that next bag of
dog food after your dog has passed away
and then you go cancel it and one of the
reasons is, hey, I canceled because my
dog passed away. You're in a very low
point. You're in an emotional state.
What Chewy does is they refund you for
their last bag and within 24 hours, you
have flowers and a card at your door.
>> Wow.
>> And what do most people do who are dog
owners? They eventually get another dog.
And what are they going to do the next
time they need dog food? They're going
to come back to Chewy.
>> Go back to Chewy. So, there's two
crucial lessons that I don't want you
guys to go past on that. Number one.
Number one, um, LTV and understanding
client LTV. What is LTV?
>> Lifetime value.
>> Lifetime value. Chewy understands the
lifetime value of pet owners are
significantly high because what? I've
had two dogs. Why do I have had two and
not just one? Because one passed.
Exactly what you said. My second dog
actually ate a toy. He's a German
Shepherd. Ate a toy. Had to have a
surgery. I thought I was losing a family
member when he was having that surgery.
This is a dog I've had for a few years.
So, number one, LTV and the importance
of LTV, right? Number one. Number two,
you tapped into or they tapped into one
of the 48 laws of power. If you haven't
read the 48 laws of power, it should be
called the 48 laws of marketing. One of
the 48 laws is the law of reciprocity.
So the law of reciprocity and marketing
is very important. The law of
reciprocity states that in exchange of
value,
one wants to exchange value. Meaning I
think like the videographer, I was like,
"Yo, nice glasses." He took them off.
He's like, "You want them? You can have
them." Now, he was probably just joking,
but if he was serious and I would have
took them glasses, let's say the glasses
cost him 100, 200, 300 bucks, I would
have felt indebted to him more for the
value of the actual glasses themselves.
>> That that's how they do business over in
the Middle East. It's crazy. Yeah. I
mean, crazy. Like, real quick, we
basically we were at an event and this
guy, he had the the the the traditional
clothing, the all-white, and then he had
this all-white like Mercedes hat that
kind of went with it. And I was like,
"Man, brother, you're looking clean. I
like the hat." And he's like, "Oh, you
want it?"
>> I was like, "Wow."
>> I was like, "No, man. I I don't I don't
want your hat. I just say I was just
paying a compliment. You look like look
sharp." And he's just like, "No, take
it. Take it." And I'm like, "I didn't
take his hat." But like that's how they
do business over there. Uh and um yeah,
I mean even the craziest example was uh
we spent time with uh Muhammad Benghadi
who's like a real estate billionaire in
the in the UAE
>> and uh he has these watches in his house
and
>> we had gone there one time and he showed
us the watches and then the next time we
came back there was one that was missing
>> and uh we said what happened to uh that
watch and he said oh the uh the
president of Libya paid me a visit and
he liked the watch so I gave it to him.
$18 million watch.
>> $18 million to him for free
>> for just he just gave it to him because
he liked it.
>> Yeah.
>> But now But now, you know, the president
of Libya is going to remember that.
>> Exactly.
>> So, you know, there's a lot to be said
about that.
>> Exactly. And relationships are are hard
to find and they're they're hard to
find. They're hard to keep. So
>> So I wanted I wanted to ask you a
question real quick. I we'll come back
to the 8 figureure marketing secrets
here in a second, but I think there's a
lot of value to be said about when you
had first found that mentor, the one
thing that you did exceptionally well is
you asked great questions. And there's a
gentleman, Sean Mike. He sold several
companies for, you know, eight n figures
and he's right now running a insurance
company that's doing like over $850
million a year. And I'd interviewed him
one time and he talked about how he was
in I don't think it was like a
mastermind but it was like a like a
business summit and one of the main guys
that was there was Arthur Blank who you
know ran Home Depot and he was you know
asking him all these like questions and
he was pretty much saying how like he
was the only person in the room asking
questions like everybody else was like
terrified to ask questions or they just
didn't have any. What was your approach
when you had that mentor? Because like
let's say you know a young person they
found that person in their space that
they're able to kind of build that
relationship with. H what was your
thought process in figuring out the
right questions to ask this person
because that that's I think that's
everything is is when you get that
opportunity how do you get to the root
of of the actionable advice that you can
get to go and implement.
>> No that's great. And you know and I'll
start by saying this. So I'm an
introvert. Like I've made millions and
millions from the comfort of my home
behind the desk. Like I'm not a
networker. I'm not great. Like I'm great
at public speaking. I'm an author. I'm a
coach. All these things, but outside of
the camera, like I'm an introvert,
right? So, how does an introvert go in
these rooms or go to a stranger
essentially and ask them the questions
and so on and so forth. So, first and
foremost, you have to act like your life
depends on it cuz it does. Getting the
right questions answered, making the
right moves, the right relationships can
change your life. So, again, emotion
creates motion. It was bigger than me
and how I felt and me being nerv nervous
or not wanting to be communicative. I
had to get it done. So, it has to work
where it has to work first and foremost.
You always have to be in a circumstance
of a situational thinking where it has
to be done. I have 30 seconds to talk to
this guy. I have to go talk to him, not
well, it'd be great if I talked to him,
got an answer. So, I was always in that
state of life or death, right? And for
me, I didn't know I've never seen this
was a unicorn. I never knew if I'd get
another unicorn. So I'm like, I have to
step out of my comfort zone, right?
Because you know what happens from
comfort? You stay in comfort, right? So
number one, you have to stay ready,
right? If you stay ready, you don't have
to get ready. Number two, my level of
thinking and and again how I look at
questions, which is really interesting
because I've never been asked this
question. So now being able to reflect
on it, the way I look at asking
questions is I act as if I only have
one, right? I act as if I only have one.
Again, the one thing by Gary Keller
changed my whole mindset. Less is more.
Like if if you only could interview
billionaires and every billionaire had
one exception, you can only ask me one
question, you would think long and hard
about that one question. And that one
answer to that one question would be
more impactful than an entire interview
itself. Right? So my questions were
methodical and they were my questions
were premeditative to the point where
the response would be a master class.
open-ended, very specific questions.
What again like I told you guys with the
group, created the group, asked them a
question. What is the biggest problem
you guys have with these products? What
is your biggest ask, your biggest
desire? Very short, very specific. Got
me an essential answer. So, when it
comes to questions, I'm really thinking
of what is the most powerful, most
potent question that I can ask. A lot of
people have general questions like they
their questions warm up like their
questions are like conversations. It's
like, "Hey, how's how's things going?"
You know, "How's the family?" So on and
so forth, and then 10 minutes in they
get to the ask, right? Um and I'll never
forget I told you the story about Cody
Sperber. I know you guys interviewed
Cody Sperber. So Cody Sperber did a was
speaking at a public event, huge event,
3,000 people, and I'm on one side and
he's on the other side and he's doing
question. It's like, "Cody, what do you
think about the green Lamborghini?"
Another one is like, "Cody, we seen the
new house. It's great." And he's getting
frustrated and there's short answers.
He's cutting them off. He wants to stop
taking questions. And then he said he
stopped taking questions. I still have
my hand up. I'm waving it like this. The
guy comes by. I'm like, "Just give me
the give me the give me the mic. Give me
the mic." I take the mic and I ask him
the question. And the question is the
the question is very detailed around how
to increase conversions. Like it was a
very specific I said, "Dude, I've went
through your funnel. I studied your
funnel. I've recorded your entire entire
funnel. why do you do this specific
thing and what is the conversion
increase because I'm going to implement
in my business. He walked from the one
side all the way to the other side.
Walked up to me and then said, "What is
your email address?" So, in front of
3,000 people, I was able to give my
email address. So, now guess what? I got
leads from the room for free. But number
two, he said, "I'm going to have my
assistant send you the funnel and all of
our data on that funnel." I went and
took that funnel and the data he sent me
went and implemented and made multiple
six figures on a webinar that I was
running by asking the right question. So
asking the right question and not not
taking no for an answer like you're
great at that. Not taking no for an
answer. No stands for no opportunity.
That's the acronym. So the secret to the
questions if you think you suck at
asking questions or you feel like you
don't want to ask the right questions.
If you only get one, what would it be?
And make it happen. It has to work or
has to work.
>> That was so good. Now let's get back to
this. right here. So, what was the most
amount of money that you made in a
single year?
>> Uh, over 11 million. So, about 11.3
million.
>> 11 M.
>> Let me ask you this. You you've given us
before, a lot of people haven't heard
this before, one of my favorite acronyms
in the entire world, and it has to do
with not reinventing the wheel, right?
Damon John had told us one time in an
interview that pioneers get slaughtered
and settlers prosper.
G give it give us the acronym that that
that we're needing right now. So, so
again, and that wow that that is
actually huge. So, the biggest epiphany
that I had, I'm an Apple user, an avid
Apple user. I love Apple as a company.
I'm an Apple shareholder. I use all of
their products. An acronym that I
developed um is WW AD, right? That's the
one you're talking about. So, WW AD is
what would Apple do? Well, I got that
from the WWJD. What would Jesus do?
Wristbands. I'm old so you guys probably
didn't see those when you were young but
back in the day you were the man if you
had you know switched the WW uh JD bands
up to match your gear right but anyway I
came up with that acronym what would
Apple do so too many people try to
reinvent the wheel right what you have
to do is you have to get inspiration
from what is working right and then
again identify what is a problem that I
can solve because here's the thing about
giants giants step over ants right
giants step over ants but small
businesses are like small business
owners are like anteaters. So what the
giants are skipping past, we can
actually get rich off of, right? So
again, like Lush and these other
companies, people are like, "Well, if I
get started on Amazon, start sell on
Amazon, I'm going to get slaughtered by
these large companies." No, because
they're not focused on Amazon. You're
focused on Amazon only. So my whole
theory is, okay, what does Apple do with
their customer service? Like the best
customer service in the world. Like if
you call anybody else, any other
company, it's someone out the country.
It's a VA. It's a terrible experience.
You could barely understand it. You call
Apple, they're US-based customer
support. They're asking you like, "Would
you like like, "Hey, I'm going to place
you on a brief hold." What type of
music? Would you like jazz, soft rock?
What type of music? Hey, you want me to
Uber you a Pierre while you're waiting
as well? Like, you know, oh, you need
help on your computer? Just just hit alt
4 and I'm going to take control of your
computer. Sit by, hang out. I'll do
everything for you. Customer service,
world support, the design, the boxes,
the packaging, the products. So, I'm
always looking at these large companies.
They're a trillion dollar company, not
by coincidence, right? By design. So,
I'm looking at the best category kings
and queens. Okay. What can I take
inspiration from that they're doing
right? Implement that. And then again,
through surveys, through uh data,
through research, um through now AI,
what are they ignoring? What are the ant
the colonies of ants that they're
stepping over that I can go pick up
figuratively speaking, right? And that's
how I do I build all my brands physical
and digital. So we were talking earlier
about Amazon and putting together your
formula for having to stand out on
Amazon, but you've had a lot of success
in the digital marketing sphere. And I
feel like the kind of that first step
for that is the offer.
>> What do you what are those things that
you think about when crafting an offer
for those that are listening? How can
they craft really really solid offers
when they're wanting to put their their
product or their their service out
there?
>> Man, this is so good. and and now like
I've recently discovered why I did so
good at Amazon is because marketing is
kind of my gift right conversion
optimization revenue optimization um and
scalability is like my gift and that's
Amazon was the platform right um now
going into digital marketing you know
and helping the best around the world
become the best around the world and do
the best with their offers I've really
noticed like okay wow the here's the
most simple way to make an offer
irresistible first of all physical or
digital never launch it if the offer is
not irresistible Right? Like again, we
talked about the physical product. What
made it irresistible? I solved the
biggest problem. You got a new batch
every single month. Plus, I gave you a
gift and it was affordable. So, that was
an irresistible offer. With digital
products, programs, courses, mentorship,
membership, communities, whatever it is,
what is an irresistible offer? This is
it in one sentence. Making things very,
very simple.
How can you get them results
the fastest?
And then how can you get them the most
results? So, how can they get the most
results the fastest? You put it
together. That's an irresistible offer.
An irresistible offer. See, amateurs
monetize the front end. Experts monetize
the back end. Experts I like I don't
care about the old me, the 2018 webinar
me, presenter me. I'm doing value stacks
because that's kind of what the
community and the industry talks about.
That's what Russell talks about. You get
this, this, and this, this, and this for
a price point of $25,000. However, if
you purchase today, it's only $14.95.
So, there's a lot going on. Number one,
that's outdated. Number two, it's false
urgency and scarcity. And then number
three, people don't care about the
pieces to the puzzle. They care about
how fast can you complete the puzzle.
Right? So, for instance, I'm going to
give you a puzzle and I'm going to give
you that puzzle and you can buy that
puzzle for $9.99 or and and why do you
want the puzzle? You want the puzzle
because you want to complete it. You
want to frame it. You want to put it on
your wall or for $19.99, I'll sell you
the puzzle and I'll put it together with
you. Which are you going to choose? If
you're not an avid puzzle builder and
you don't love that, you're going to pay
for the speed. So, success loves speed.
So, in any offer, there's two
components. How many? Two. You should be
writing this down. Component number one,
speed. Speed to result.
Variable number two, size of result. So
when you combine the two and there's
symmetry of a speed of execution and
result with a size of result, now it
becomes irresistible. For instance, what
if I could come into your business and
add an additional seven or eight figures
and you don't pay if I don't deliver on
those results? Would you say that's an
irresistible offer?
>> Yes.
>> Would you say that's something that you
could value from?
>> Yes. That's my offer.
So again, what is it? Two things. Speed.
I want to get you X amount of results
within a year. And size of results. 7 to
eight figures is a big number. So that's
the example of the framework. And then a
real world example. You said that trying
to do everything yourself is like
putting a noose on your growth.
>> How important is it to delegate? And how
important was delegation for you growing
that first business to multiple seven
figures?
>> So, two parts to this. Part one, every
business owner, especially if you're a
beginning entrepreneur, like you haven't
done six figures, seven figures, eight
figures, you have to wear many hats
because I'm an avid believer that you
cannot manage what you haven't
effectively done. Right? Number one. So
there's a growth stage and we'll call it
so the three stages of wealth I look at
for any business and in life is wealth
creation, accumulation and preservation.
So those are the three stages. Stage one
during wealth creation when you're
starting your business, you have to wear
all the hats so that you can effectively
manage those hats when you delegate. Um
so that's stage one. Stage two in wealth
accumulation that's when we're scaling
up. you then want to delegate because
when you delegate you don't participate
and then you fall victim to now or
excuse me now you're creating this ASAP
acronym ASAP is autonomous sustainable
action in perpetuity so that's the whole
mind frame and logic I'm thinking about
with my business right um so delegation
is essential because what you need to do
like you will not be the best at every
area of your business even though it's
your baby you built it you can do
everything good you care about it more
than anybody else. But the hack is when
you hire the right teammates, and you
delegate it so that you can focus on
what's the highest and best use of your
time. So, here's step two for wealth
accumulation. After everything's built,
you've worn all the hats, you're doing
the email, customer support, you're
doing the sales, you're doing
everything. Step number two, if you have
not taken a DISC assessment, you need to
take a disc assessment. There's a few
different providers. Tony Robbins has
one. There's a Myra Briggs. Why? Because
that's going to show you what part of
your brain you use more than the other
part. and what are the characteristics
of your thought process, your um
relationship building, who do you work
the best with, so on and so forth. This
will help you in life dramatically for
$30, $40, right? So now, if you know,
for instance, I'm a high D, right? So I
get things done immediately. If I have
an idea from idea to execution is is
immediate, but I'm not an integrator.
I'm not a manager. I'm not an operator,
right? I'm a visionary. I'm a I'm a
marketer. I'm a strategist. I take
action on things. So now when I'm
hiring, I need to make sure that my
hiring and the staff that I'm hiring are
the ying to my yang or the counterwe to
where I lack, right? And this is huge
even for those of you that are like
dating. Like I've been married now next
month will be my 10-y year anniversary
on the 22nd of next month. And I was
just telling my wife like it's it should
be almost mandatory that you know
husband and wife take a DISC assessment
before they get married because
everybody talks about you know high
percentage of marriages fail and divorce
and this and that. What they don't talk
about is compatibility, right? Like so
many people bring up Josh, you have a
nth grade education, no GED or
equivalent, no high school diploma, no
college degree, but you can sit in a
Harvard boardroom and teach and you
know, you're an executive meetings, you
you deal with multiple, you know, eight
figure earners. How and why? It's
because it's not that the knowledge and
the skill set isn't there. It was the
compatibility to learn in a specified
setting. See, the traditional curriculum
system was designed for workers, not
builders, creators, or thinkers. And
that's what John D. Rockefeller, the
founder of the school system, said that
we don't want a nation of thinkers,
we want a nation of doers. In fact, he
funded the scholastic system, the
curriculum system to build more workers
for his plant, his railroads, and his
different companies. So, someone like
me, someone like maybe you, if you're in
a similar situation, you may not thrive
in a school settings because there's one
type of learning. One type only. We're
going to do a quick lecture. read this
book, do this test. Something that I
find fascinating, you have a ninth grade
education, and if you look at some of
the most successful advertisements of
all time, they're written at a third or
fifth grade reading level.
>> Why do you think that is?
>> It's that's that's crucial. Like I I
often tell my children like like you
need to speak well everything you do to
the best of your ability. And whenever
you are reasoning, negotiating, doing
business, explaining, creating an offer,
doing anything, make it as elementary as
possible. And my son who just came out
of elementary, he's like, "What what
does that mean, Dad? Make it as
elementary as possible. Make it as
understandable as possible to the point
where someone in elementary would
understand it." And the case is because
confusion is the lack of conversion.
Right? So, so many people come on and
they think like and even if you hear me
speak or hear me present, if I'm going
to do an elaborate six, seven, eight
figure business proposition or deal or
speak from stage, I'm not saying look at
myself and talking about all this crazy
stuff because what happens is it'll go
over your head. If it goes over your
head, it goes past your wallet. So, I
want to make sure that
if it goes over your head, it'll go past
your wallet. So, I want to
if it goes over your head, it'll go past
your wallet. So my goal is to make sure
that I can articulate properly and that
everybody from all walks of faith,
belief, and even educational, you know,
uh um part can understand.
>> That one got us.
>> No, no. So, so I wanted to ask real
quick because we were having a
conversation about this earlier about
marketing and I was asking you, you
know, whether or not you thought, you
know, marketing is overrated. And I say
that cuz I recently just interviewed um
uh what's his name? Jim Cook. He's the
founder of Samuel Adams the Beer. He's
worth 1.2 $2 billion and he talks about
how he says, you know, sales is
extremely underrated, but he thinks
marketing was overrated. And the reason
why is because he was talking about how
when he was in the process of branding
Samuel Adams, uh he said, "I'm confident
that I could have either gone with the
name Samuel Samuel Adams or uh Boston
beer logger company and they would have
been equally successful." And he and the
kind of example that he gave was is that
how many times have you really, you
know, made purchases off of like, "Oh,
that was great marketing." Right? Now,
we could definitely argue and be like,
"No, people are impacted by that." But
in the instance, you are a big advocate
of of that marketing, and you were
talking about it earlier. I thought you
put it beautifully about how you're like
convincing people that they have the
product before they even buy it.
>> Kind of what is your thoughts on that?
How do you approach consumers psychology
when you're coming up with the marketing
campaign, your copy, whatever it may be?
Give us some give us some game on
marketing right here.
>> Yeah. So, so first and foremost, I guess
to piggyback off that, I guess everybody
has their personal opinions and
experiences with sales and marketing,
right? Um, my first love, passion and
area of expertise is marketing. I
learned marketing before sales. I became
really good at marketing because being,
you know, I became really good at
marketing early on and then later on I
became really good at sales. And then
now I can say that the symmetry between
marketing sales is important because if
you have a bad product and bad
marketing, you can get sales, but the
sales will only last so long or the
sales will only be so high. And what the
part of sales that we don't talk about
is chargebacks. There's no chargebacks
on visibility. Once there's a view on
your YouTube channel or your podcast or
your Instagram, that view is there
forever. Once there's a sale, that sale
can be refunded, can be charged back,
can be lost. The LTV can be lost. that
clients trust can be lost.
>> There's no chargebacks on visibility. I
like that.
>> There's no chargebacks on visibility. So
visibility like if you give me like
again we talked about earlier briefly
the important of relationships like I
have many good friends that I have not
done business with because I I care
about friendship. I care about actual
relationships. It's more valuable than
money to me because why? Because time
again we talked about that time you
don't get it back. Well, visibility uh
visibility and also what people think
about you and your brand that that is
very hard to build and very very long.
It takes a long time to build and a
short time to ruin. Right? So you can
get a lot of sales
through marketing, but if it's a bad
product, it's not going to last. Right?
So I think that the the symmetry between
the two ha have to be together, right?
What is marketing? Essentially, all
marketing is is letting the world know
what you have and why they need it.
Right? What is the product? Here's my
what is the product? Here's my product.
Why you need my product, right? So when
I look at marketing, I look at
persuasion. it all it is is sales is
serving at the highest level when you
stop looking at as uh icky it's sales oh
if you generally believe in the product
and again sales is gen sales is selling
a product marketing is letting you know
I have a product and I think the
symmetry between the two believing in
the product right and being able to
effectively change someone's life with
the product and as a result getting
compensated is where you want to be at
right um so that's kind of the way I
look at it and the way when I'm
marketing products again I'm looking for
the outcome
My biggest goal is for you to see the
outcome. Remember the two variables, two
variables. Variable number one, speed of
result. Number two, size of result. So
when I'm marketing, speed of result,
size of result, and then when I'm doing
the sales, it's explain basically I'm
getting you to see why you need this and
how I can improve the quality of your
life. So when you become in a position
where you're helping serve others,
genuinely, sales is is serving and it's
easy. So, I think being between the two
in those two being mirrored is is very
very important.
>> You could have the best burger in town,
but if nobody knows you have the best
burger in town, you don't have the best
burger in town.
>> If they
>> Yeah, you got it.
>> If they don't know you,
>> they can't flow you. Yep. And the offer
you don't make is an offer they can't
take.
>> So, um you know, one common theme that
we've been talking about today is time.
And you know I feel in the lifespan of
every business owner there comes a day
where you realize I'm spending too much
time working in the business and not on
the business. And so there was a
framework in our first interview that we
did with you that we took forever with
us which was like stop doing MWA which
stands for minimum wage activities start
focusing on income activities. We
probably we have integrated that saying
from that interview with you into our
business even to our team members saying
like hey
>> if that you are doing minimum wage
activities we need to find a way to
automate this and and do things like
>> and not to cut you off in your question
but I just wanted to piggyback on it and
let you finish your question but like
for for the longest time like that that
MWA saying man you know cuz we have like
a content agency so we would like give
oursel like different roles like we
would call you know cuz we have clients
that we like do their personal brands
And for the longest time, Josh was
working in the agency and and he was
like reviewing all the videos. And so
the CRO
>> we we we we called him the chief review
officer. And then and then in my case,
right, a lot of people don't even know
this.
>> I have edited every single one of my
interviews that I post.
>> Wow.
>> I edit every single interview. So So I
am the what? The CEO, the chief editor
officer.
I came I came to I came to ter I came to
terms with that with him because I used
to get on him all the time. I was like,
"Man, we could get another editor here
and train." But in Dan Martell's book,
Buy Back Your Time, he talks about for
some
>> love that book.
>> For some business owners, they have this
thing called the production quadrant,
which it's like that those
>> two or three things that like maybe it
might not make sense, but it gives you
that joy, that energy, that passion.
>> I can justify the 250 million views a
month that we get. You know what I mean?
So I after I read that book, I stopped
bothering him about having him to hire
out the editing cuz I'm like, you know
what,
>> interviewing and editing those videos is
his production quadrant. Like those are
two things that like we never need
>> and highest highest highest and best use
of time as well.
>> Literally, that's what fuels him and
gives him energy. So it's like I don't
need to if he gets so much energy of
like getting super like meticulous about
the interviews and the editing, let it
ride because it's working. Uh my main
question was is because another book
that I think everybody listening to this
that they should read if that is you if
that MWA I'm doing MW activities I'm
working in the business on the business
if that speaks to you read the E-Myth
Revisited. I think that is a brilliant
book for anybody starting out as an
entrepreneur.
>> What are some books that maybe we
haven't mentioned on this podcast you
think that people need to check out? I'm
the wrong, you know, my my books are in
my will. Like my my book collection, my
library is in my will at top priority.
Like I like I keep inventory on them. I
maintain them. I keep them clean. The
currency in my household for my children
is books. My son wants a car. You learn
you you you got to earn by learning.
Like that's the currency in our
household. I I learned that from Patrick
Bat David. Um, so let me be intentional
because it changes a lot and it depends
on like this is a general question a lot
of people ask, but the books that I
recommend changes on like where you're
at in business, where you're at in life.
So I'll try to go wide with this, but I
will say this. I tell my kids this. You
ask any of my kids like off camera,
offscript, what does your dad, what's
the biggest piece of advice your dad
tells you, and it's literally the keys
to the kingdom are in the chapters to
the books. That's they they know that
I'm avidly reading. They know I don't
have an education. I'm avidly reading.
I'm always teaching them that. I make
them read. So like it's boring. If you
hate reading, do audio books. But it is
the cheat code, right? Um but books. A
recent book that I wrote that I read
that is a game changer which I wish I
read at an earlier stage in my business
um is peaks and valleys. Um and actually
I I'll open up my my recent audio book.
That's one of the ones with that that
classic the white the the the those
classic business books the white cover
with the big letters. Yeah,
>> it's the off it's the author from Who
Moved My Cheese? Um and I've got no
service in here. I was going to try to
pull it up.
>> Um it's funny. Buyback your time is on
here under under continue listening. I I
listen to that book once a quarter. how
he talks about elab like how he
elaborates on your time, time usage,
time blocking and efficiency of your
team members is huge. Like when we talk
about MWA, like all jokes aside, MWA
minimum wage activities, all the
activities and all the roles within your
business, you want to write them down on
a sheet and in chronological order. You
want to put hourly slashanually salaries
next to those. You want to put next to
that how much you want to make. Like how
much do you want to make? How much do
you want your business to make? How much
do you feel you're worth? And then next
to that, you want to do a scoring
system. It can be one to five, it can be
stars, whatever you want. And you want
to rate yourself on what is the highest
and best use of your time. What comes
easy to you naturally and harder to
others, right? Like we talked about the
symmetry of sales and marketing for him.
Like why why would you be editing? Why
would you be editing? Why would you be
recording? Why would you be doing the
interviews? Because he's obsessed over
it and he has a dialed in, proven in
system. It's what he's passionate about.
And like I told you guys earlier about
like you're changing lives with it and
he probably knows that. So like why you
could outsource this of course like me
why do I do all the CM CMO stuff like I
can outsource that because that's what
I'm passionate about. Um but buyback
your time by Dan Martell is huge on just
optimization of client uh optimization
of team members of your own time. Um the
seven habits of highly effective people
by Stefan Arovi. Peaks and valleys by
Spencer Johnson. I think he also wrote
uh who moved my cheese. um that peaks
and valley is a short read. It's a it's
like a two three-hour audio book on 1.5
speed. The whole premise of it, it talks
about business being cyclical, which it
is. Life is also cyclical, right? And so
you can learn about business and in life
in this book in a very interesting
perspective where the peaks are when
life is the highest, when life is the
best, when business is the highest,
you're shattering records, everything is
working. Valleys is when you're alone,
right? Maybe you're divorced. Maybe
you're alone trying to find a
significant other. Maybe you lost a
loved one. Or in business, it can be
your business had a turn. Maybe your ad
account got shut down, offers not
working, revenues down, um tariffs hit,
like whatever it is. Like there's peaks
and valleys and the decisions that you
make in the peaks or the decisions that
you make in the valleys determine how
long the peaks are. So your whole goal
is to make the peaks last as long as
possible and how to understand that
you're in a valley and use that again.
How to find a positive from a negative.
When you're in a valley, what can you
learn from it? And how can you reduce
the time in the valley so you can
increase the time in the peak? Very
interesting, very powerful. Um, The
Richest Man in Babylon is huge. And
again, I'm going to go super wide with
it, right? Richest man in Babylon. Both
my kids have read it. They've listened
to the audio books. The whole premise
is, and this is a mistake a lot of
people make with entrepreneurship, as
their business increases, their expense
increases with it. So what you want if
this is a trajectory like if I don't
know if we can get a graphic or just
look at my visualization of this as your
revenue is increasing you want your
expenses to flatline. So this is how you
want it to look like. This is your
income. This is your expenses. So the
richest man in Babylon talks about
really how to live below your means and
how to build true wealth. Like your
money, your soldiers, how to keep them
working for you. And when you spend your
money you're killing your soldiers. When
you invest your money, you're allowing
them to multiply, right? So, that's huge
because a lot of people, especially like
me, who never came from money, they get
the Lamborghini immediately, they get
the Rolex, they go buy the mansion, it's
your first year doing good, right? So,
for me, I'm always investing. I'm always
saving. I'm being frugal, living below
my means. That was a huge uh huge key
for me.
>> You got to invest. And there's a line
that you said that I absolutely love is
Amazon will make you rich, but real
estate will keep you rich.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> When did you why did you decide to start
investing into real estate and why
should others start to make that jump
into into that?
>> Great. So, fun fact, real estate was my
passion and what I wanted to get into,
but I had no credit, had no money, knew
no one in it. So, Amazon started first.
And that that saying Amazon will make
you rich, real estate will keep you rich
um is essentially that find a vehicle
that can produce fast cash at high
margin and then take that and invest it
into something. So we talked about the
three pillars of success, wealth
creation, wealth accumulation, wealth
preservation. Find you a business that
will secure the first two foundations or
pillars, which is creation and
accumulation. Then transfer the money
from the accumulation sector to the
preservation sector. So for me, it's
okay. Once you make the money, how do
you keep the money? Because the
difference between the rich and the
wealthy, it's not who they work for,
it's not what they did, it's not how
many books they wrote, it's not where
they went to college, it's what they did
with their money. Right? Again, the
decisions they made in their valleys
determined how long their peaks would
be. And the decisions they made in their
peaks determine how low their valleys
will be. So now when there's
inconsistency or there's drops in other
businesses or something happens I have
that Rolls-Royce of investing that
recurring revenue coming in from my
close to 100 apartments right or close
to 100 properties right so for me it was
always my passion wanted to get into it
made a ton of money fast with the
digital I put all my money even to today
in real estate I would say 75% real
estate for me um 25% stocks and crypto
>> now I I I got to ask you cuz I was
asking you earlier about a lesson about
money that banks don't want people to
know. Do you remember what you said?
>> Let me think about that. Um,
>> it was about the debt.
>> It was about the debt. Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Okay. So, a bank a bank is sexy, right?
A bank the the the name bank is sexy. Do
you know what bank means?
>> No.
>> So, the name of the bank is actually
it's it's called a fractional reserve.
So, banks are all fractional reserves.
But they're never going to market and
this is the difference between marketing
and sales. They're never going to market
it as fractional reserve JP Morgan. It's
JP Morgan, the bank, right? And the
reason why they don't want you to know
that that they're actually fractional
reserves is because they hold on to a
fractional reserve. So the smartest
thing you can do with the bank is play
the game that the bank plays, right? The
bank makes money off of your money,
right? It's free money, kind of like the
casino. So what happens with the
fractional reserve is you bring $1,000
to me, the bank, or the fractional
reserve. I then put it in your savings
account and give you 0.001 on your
thousand dollar, which is approximately
a penny if my math is right. Right. Um,
I'm then going to take your $1,000
immediately and I'm going to give it to
him, a savvy investor or entrepreneur,
at a 7 to 25% interest. Let's just keep
the numbers simple. We'll say 10%. He
wants to go do a deal. The minute you
give me your money, I give you one
penny. I give that $1,000 to him for
$100. I make a thousandx return on an
investment I never made. That's how
banks make money. So now how the rich,
the wise, the wealthy, the successful
use banks, they play the banks game
alongside the banks. So now what I'll
do, and this is not how I started, by
the way, like because they don't teach
this. You can't learn this. I didn't
learn this in school. No one told me
this. I learned it by playing the game.
What I'll do now is I will make my
money. I'll take my money to the bank,
right? Because you got to have it
somewhere. But then I'll take my money
back from the bank through loans and use
those loans and use those lines of
credit to scale businesses and buy real
estate. Now when I scale any asset,
business is an asset. Property is an
asset, a real tangible asset. When I
scale these up, I increase what the
value. When I increase the value, I'm
now getting a loan on the value or LTV,
loan to value. Two examples, two
different worlds, same thing. I build a
business to a million dollars. I want to
take a loan out on 50% of the
million-doll enterprise that it's worth,
the Ebida that it's worth. I can go get
$500,000, right? If I have a million
dollar portfolio, I want to take 50% of
the value to get some cash. That's also
$500,000. Two different assets. Same
thing through a loan. Now, here's where
things the magic happens. If I'm
profiting through that $500,000, but
it's through a loan, I don't pay taxes
on it.
Did you see what I did there?
>> So, the portfolio wasn't worth a million
when I bought it. I improved it. The
business wasn't worth a million when I
bought it or gained equity or or shares,
right? Or built it from the ground up
and bootstrapped it. It's through value
through forced appreciation. So, when I
instead of selling it and taking the
money or pulling the money out, I pull
the money out through a loan and I don't
pay taxes on it. And that's what the
rich, the wealthy, and the wise, they
do. the business will pay the note on
the $500,000 and still cash flow
knocking down that amortization schedule
and the real estate will do the same.
And that's kind of the backend. That's
my retirement. That's the future uh you
know project for the kids. So on and so
forth. And that's what I did. And that's
what I wish I would have done early on
because like I we talked about my family
didn't come from money. Never had credit
cards. And I was taught debt is bad.
Debt is what you use when you're messed
up. You have no other option. And then
you get in debt and then you just live
this miserable life because of credit
card debt and student loans and all this
debt we hear. But the rich, the wealthy,
the wise, they all have AAXes in their
in their card. I do not use a debit
card. I never will use a debit card. My
wife doesn't use a debit card. I explain
to my kids why we don't use debit cards,
right? We leverage credit. We leverage
loans. So now, if I'm going to spend the
money on cash that I have for things
that I need, why not use AAX? get 4x
points on my gold card in two
categories, which means for every $1 I
spend, I get 4x points up to 200 grand.
So now, what does that mean? Now I can
take the millions of credit card points
I have, and I can fly first class to
Dubai, $30,000 for free. I can take my
kids on the Icon Seas, which is a
$40,000 cruise for my family for free in
the best cabins. So the rich, the
wealthy, and the wise are leveraging
financial institutions to not only grow
their business, but to grow their net
worth. And a lot of this is in line with
what what did your dad tell you? Your
dad's 77 now. What what did he tell you?
>> So So my father's been in the
construction industry his whole life.
And ever since I was young, again, both
my parents, mother and father, two
biggest pieces of advice that I ever got
has nothing to do with money, credit,
business, or anything, but it's helped
me make millions of dollars. My my mom
my mother told me the negative, if you
can find a positive from a negative, you
never have a negative. My father told me
to always find a way to generate revenue
with your brain. It'll outlast your
back. He's 7. just turned 77. His
birthday was on the 14th, you know, and
he's great for his age cuz he worked
hard his whole life. However, that's the
thing. He worked hard for your own life.
And when you exchange time for money or
labor for money, it's the lowest of the
value ladder because you can only earn
in one place and then you're exchanging
your time, your most valuable asset for
the least valuable asset that exists,
which is currency. Currency isn't even
worth the value of the material that is
printed on. In fact, if you go back BC
before Christ, currencies throughout the
different areas of the world were on
actually materials that had substance
value like gold and silver. Now it's
paper and copper. Do you know why
copper? Do you know why nickel? Because
it's the cheapest of precious metals.
So, if you really look at it, we're
exchanging our most valuable asset for
the least valuable asset that exists.
So, the highest and best use of your
times. And how can you make your money
work for you so you don't have to work
for it? Because if you don't find a way
to make money while you sleep, you'll
work until you die.
>> It's a great point. And on that point of
extending time, you know, I see the
whoop. Got to
>> working on the longevity when you're not
working on business. What are some of
those things that you feel that are
important that business owners and
people need to be aware of?
>> Yeah, in the last 24 months, you know,
I'm far from perfect. I think most
business owners and entrepreneurs are.
Again, if I could go back again, when
you've never had money, you've never had
success. That is your pivotal like
that's all you are concerned about. Let
me make my first 10K, then it's your
first 100K, then it's your first
million, then it's your first million in
a year, then it's your first million in
a month, then it's your first million in
a day, and then after you shatter all of
those,
the goals keep going up, but the
happiness stays the same. So that saying
that money does not buy happiness, it's
it's true and it's false because I often
tell people who say that you you know
you never had a bad day hopped in a
Lamborghini and heard that that V10
naturally aspirated engine and seen the
looks that you get, right? You you've
never looked at the time and realized,
"Wow, I have a $50,000 watch with the
wrong time, the wrong day, and the wrong
date and thought to myself, wow." Right?
But all all jokes aside, um health,
wealth, and happiness. And now the last
24 months, I've vividly been focusing on
my personal health and personal
development. Not only strength, not only
physique, but longevity, like you said,
is the key word because you can be
jacked, you could be shredded, you could
be skinny, and you could be unhealthy,
and you can have, you know, shortened,
uh, longevity. So, just being the
healthiest I can be, being the best
version of myself physically, um,
spiritually, mentally, uh, mental health
is huge, focusing on my mental health,
focusing on my marriage, being the best
husband I can for my wife. We've been
married 10 years next month on the 22nd,
and being the best father I can be,
right? So, for me, again, and there's a
saying, you have to be selfish before
you can be selfless. So, I don't have it
all figured out. I'll tell you what I
did. I probably messed up, but here's
where I am. the first five to seven
years in business until I became a
multi-millionaire and I knew with the
systems set up remember wealth creation
accumulation preservation with the
preservation set up the trust the wills
the real estate the systems the SOPs for
if I pass with all that set up and my
family being good for the rest of their
life it's like okay what's next right
and for me it was the relationship with
them the relationship with her the
relationship with God the relationship
with myself all four were neglected when
I built that I bless bled, sweat, like I
slept, bre I slept, sweated, um, and
bled my business 24/7, 365. It's
probably not the right way to do it. I
didn't I wasn't Dan Martelling it when I
started out. I mean, it's awesome. It's
great to learn this personal
development, but I think business to
start, especially below your first 100K,
below your first million, you have to
hustle. Like grit, like grit,
hardworking, grit, determination,
perseverance will outlast any type of
skill set because you could be the best
in the world at a specific thing and the
worst in the world at actually following
up, at actually taking action, at
working on the weekends, and you won't
get the results. So, when I started, I
gave everything. I committed first,
figured out the rest later. I did
everything. I worked around the clock.
Then I finally became successful and I
had to sit down again. Emotion creates
motion. I had that emotion, went to the
doctor, blood pressure high, losing my
hair, fat gut on me, miserable. I What
am I doing? You drive a Lamborghini, you
have this life that you always dreamt
for and you're throwing it away, right?
And I remember again, my mom always told
me, you know, we're Christian. Um, I
believe in God personally and my mom
always told me that God will never bless
you with something that if you don't God
will never bless you with the next best
thing if you don't take care of the
current thing.
>> So I've again 10,000 a month. First it
was 10,000 cash then 10,000 a month then
100k then a million then it was a
million in a month and a million a day.
I did a million in three hours multiple
times on launches, multiple seven
figures, multiple times. And I kept
asking for more but doing less with the
greatest gift that I've been given which
is life. So I think that anybody's
listening to this, I can tell you after
chasing this thing called success, a
father, a husband, multiple business
owner, coach, consultant, motivational
speaker, all of that the last 10 years,
success is becoming the best version of
yourselves and helping those who you
care about become the best version of
themselves. That to me is what true
success is and what I've been chasing
the last 24 months. I love it, my
friend. And we like to end these off
with two last questions, man. your last
message to the younger generation,
right? 35 today. How old today?
>> 35. Yep. 35. Josh, me and you perish
tomorrow. What's your last message to
the younger generation? So, the biggest
mistake you can make is sharing a large
dream with someone who has a small
mindset because influence is huge. And
when we're starting out and when you're
starting out, and some of you are
starting out, some of you are right now
in this phase. You're sharing your large
dream with a small-minded person. And
this could be someone that you love,
someone you care about, someone you
cherish, someone you've known forever,
it can be your friend that you went to
school with and you've known your whole
life. It can be your mother. It can be
your father. It can be your sister. It
can be your brother. Do not allow them
to tell you no. Because first, they will
ask you why. But when you figure out
what you are trying to figure out and
you get the results that you know that
you can get and you believe in yourself,
you go all in, you commit first, figure
out the less later and understand that
success loves speed. They will then ask
you how. First they'll ask you why, then
they'll ask you how. Every single person
that doubted me has my program. And
guess what? I wouldn't accept their
money. You couldn't hire me to train
you. You couldn't hire me to consult
you. And I won't take your money. Here
it is for free. You weren't there when I
was here. you won't be here now that I'm
here. Right? And you a lot of people
like literally a lot of people check out
because of that. Hey mom, what do you
think about this? How Hey dad, what do
you think about this? I've been told and
I'm not going to say by who. You're not
a real man. You've got two children.
You've got a wife. Go get a job. What
does job stand for? Just above broke.
They say, you know, that's a scam.
Making money online is a scam. You're
24, you're 25 years old at the time in
2015. You're 24, you're 25 years old.
You're trying to make how much money
online? So you have a kid, you have
kids, you have a wife, you don't want to
go to work and be a man. You want to sit
at home and try to figure out this
internet thing. It's a scam. You know
what scam still? Scam is an acronym that
stands for still confused about money.
So it's not a person problem, it's a
learning problem. Right? So for those of
you that feel broke and disgusted that
use that emotion as fuel because emotion
creates motion.
>> Yes, sir. We've talked a lot about a lot
of great things today and u you've
accomplished a lot in your life, but
when it's all said and done, how do you
want to be remembered?
>> I want to be remembered as someone who's
generally given more than they've asked
for. And that's my number one goal. My
number one goal, we talked about
reciprocity. My number one goal, my kids
know it as a trait that I cherish, that
I believe that I'm good at. I genuinely,
and that's why I protect my circle and
who I'm around. I have a very small
network um and level of exposure because
anyone who's around me who comes around
me I want to make sure that the quality
of their life improves again remember
success to me is the high becoming the
chasing cuz I never believe that you
will ever die like on this time on earth
will never reach max potential so I'm
always chasing that right highest and
best use of my time becoming the best
version of myself so on and so forth but
again the second part of success is not
only becoming the best version of myself
but helping those around me become the
best version of themselves. So, I would
want to be remembered as someone who
literally gave more than they asked and
generally wanted to see everyone around
them thrive and become the best version
of themselves.
>> You went crazy today, Josh. You went
crazy, man. My man. Well, hey, everybody
tuned in right now, be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content we've got
coming every week cuz we're bringing the
biggest business owners, the most
successful, most knowledgeable business
owners in the entire world directly to
you every single week. Joshua, where can
everybody find you out online?
>> Official Joshua Crisp across the
internet. And again, I'll I'll end with
this. Do not become addicted to
education and allergic to execution. And
I'm an avid believer that if you do not
pay, you do not pay attention. If
there's no transaction, there will never
be a transformation. So act right now.
Make your deposit right now. For those
of you that took notes, that's your
deposit. This platform is free. Their
paid platforms are basically free
because you can't hire these people to
learn from these people. Even if you had
the money, you wouldn't even know where
to contact these people. So, please do
not just skip to the next podcast and
just get warm and fuzzy inside. Warm and
fuzzy inside for the 30, 60, 90 minutes.
Please deposit with your time, effort,
and energy because if you put the work
in, it will work out. I love it. And
we're going to plug all of Josh's links
down to find him on Instagram below, as
well as, like you said, guys, our
platform, the School of Mentors. We
built it into the number one community
for entrepreneurs in the entire world
because we give you guys direct access
to the millionaires and billionaires we
interview every week where you can get
mentored from them on live calls. Check
it out. We've got over 4,000 like-minded
entrepreneurs in there growing, learning
from the biggest minds in the world, and
getting mentored from them. So, go down
to the link in the description. With
that being said, we'll see you in the
next video.