We've been able to interview over 40
billionaires in the last 4 years. Over
a,000 millionaire interviews. Myronman
Golden is the most viewed video in
School of Hartnox history.
>> Wow.
>> Absolutely. Over 100 million views on
one [music] platform. We didn't even
know videos could get that many.
>> Exactly. I've never seen it happen
before.
>> One of the fundamentals that I love is
that people hate to be sold to, but
people love to buy.
>> I've heard that phrase that people love
to buy, but they hate to be sold. I
don't really agree with that. I believe
that people love to buy, but they hate
to be convinced. [music] Selling is
persuasion. And persuasion. Hear me now
when I say this. Persuasion is the
opposite [music] of convincing. What do
I mean?
>> Myin, you also said that you not only
believe in God, but you trust God.
>> Control [music] is an illusion. And
gratitude is something that everybody
can afford, but [music] so few people
are willing to pay for it.
>> I get it. Yeah, we work hard and we have
character and we do tell the truth and
blah blah blah, but God blessed me to be
able to be aware enough to do that. It's
all a gift. Myin, if me and you died
tomorrow and [music] you had one last
message to leave with the younger
generation, what would that be?
[ laughter ]
Like I'm not usually speechless. Um,
>> what's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James and I'm here with Jack and
Josh and we are out in Tampa, Florida
for a legendary episode with Mr. Myron
Golden. Okay, Myron has become one of
the most renowned business consultants
throughout the world. He's mastered
sales. He's mastered marketing, right?
From the trash man to the cashman. As
you all know, he's made millions of
dollars throughout his career. And a fun
statistic for everybody watching right
now. First of all, a lot of you are
seeing this on YouTube, but this is our
first ever live podcast.
>> Oh, wow. I didn't even know we had a
live audience today. And we do. We got
we got [laughter] we got some heads
today.
>> We got some folk in here.
>> Make some noise. Make some noise.
>> So, [applause]
it's only right at the School of Hard
Knocks podcast and on the School of Hard
Knocks. I got one rule for all my
interviews. There's no holding back.
We're going to get
>> We don't mess around. Yeah, [laughter]
almost.
>> Absolutely not. And uh another fun
statistic is so you know the three of us
we've been able to interview over 40
billionaires in the last four years.
Over a thousand millionaire interviews.
My Golden is the most viewed video in
School of Hard Knocks history.
>> Wow.
>> Absolutely. [cheering]
>> Wow.
>> And you can what is it over 106 million
views on Instagram alone?
>> Over 100 million views on one platform.
So uh and and and like we said the
second the second time I saw you, we
didn't even know videos could get that.
Exactly. I've never seen it happen
before. Exactly.
>> My where I want to get things started
today is, you know, obviously you became
wealthy because you mastered a certain
set of skill sets. But one of the most
fundamental beliefs and mindset shifts
that you had is that you become rich
when you realize that income does not
follow effort, rather the value that you
create. Okay. A lot of people think
that, man, you can get rich through hard
work. Well, there's a lot of people that
work hard and they work at a fast food
restaurant. When did you have that
fundamental realization and mindset
shift happen in your life?
>> Oh, it I it probably happened when I was
reading a book. Which book? I don't
know. I've read thousands. Um but I was
reading a book, I'm sure. And I realized
or probably heard Jim Ran say um that
profits are better than wages. I was
like, profits are better than wages? I
like that. And he said, you can um you
work on your job to make a living, but
you work on yourself to make a fortune.
And I said, I know how to I can work on
myself. And so that's where that
realization came from. It came from me
exposing myself to people who knew
things that I had not yet discovered.
>> So proximity was important.
>> Proximity is important. And proximity
can happen in many different ways. It
can happen like these folks are here to
have watch us have this conversation
today. It can happen when you read a
book. It can happen while they're
watching a podcast like people are
watching this podcast right now. So
proximity, we we have more access to
proximity in 2026 than the human race
has had in the history of the world. So
everybody has access. You know, I I like
to share with people, you don't lack
access to abundance. You lack awareness
of the access you have to abundance.
>> But let's talk about this, right?
Because you know, we interviewed Robert
Hersbec from Shark Tank. Yep. Uh who a
lot of people are familiar with. And I
asked him the question. I said, "Robert,
what do you think is more important,
what you know or who you know?" And he
said that, you know, some of the most BS
advice that people will give is that who
you know is more important because hyper
successful people are not going to give
you the time a day. They're not going to
spend a ton of time around you unless
you have something that you can offer to
that person, right? So, how would you
recommend going about getting access to
that proximity with people? You know,
obviously a lot of it can be through
money means, but are there any other
ways that you would look to attach
yourselves to the right people?
The the first and foremost most
important way to have access to anyone
is to seek to serve more than you seek
to be served. And what does that mean?
That means you have to get your mind off
yourself. People who have a hard time
selling, they can't sell because they
want to make a sale so they can make
some money. If you want to sell
something to somebody because you have
something that's going to change their
life and you want to get that
transformation to them, that feels very
different than I hope this person buys
from me so I can buy the next thing I
want to buy. So thinking
from the marketplace, how can I serve
this person? How can I make this
person's life better is the best way to
get access to anyone because people can
feel your vibe. There's a there's a
scripture that says there's a scripture
that says, "As in water face answer to
face, so does the heart of a man to a
man." What does that mean? That means
just like when you look in a bowl of
water, you can see a reflection of your
face. When you're talking to somebody,
you're actually reflecting to them who
you think you are. So, you pick up vibes
from people. You can feel whether
somebody is whether somebody's trying to
work you or whether they really care
about you.
>> And so,
care about the people you talk to. Care
about the people you engage with. Care
about the people you interact with. And
that will help you take your life to
another level and give you access.
>> One of the fundamentals that I love is
that people hate to be sold to, but
people love to buy. And one of the
things that I feel like when people
approach sales is that they come from a
problem of just trying to push their
product or service onto someone else
versus asking questions and trying to be
of servitude to to that other person.
>> With that being said, what is one of the
fundamental things that you feel like
people when they're approaching sales or
are learning sales that they get wrong?
>> Well, it and I've heard that phrase if
that people love to sell, they love to
buy but they hate to be sold. I don't
really agree with that. Um, I believe
that people love to buy, but they hate
to be convinced.
>> And there's a difference between selling
and convincing because selling is not
convincing.
>> Selling is persuasion. And persuasion,
hear me now when I say this, persuasion
is the opposite of convincing. What do I
mean? Convincing is when I attempt to
get you to do something I want you to do
for my reasons.
>> That's good.
>> Persuasion is when I help you make a
decision you already desire to make for
your own reasons. See, I don't have to
push anything. The reason I don't have
to push anything is because I woke up
one day and I realized and I don't know
when what day it was I woke up and I
realized that. But I woke up one day and
I realized that there are already
thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds
of thousands or millions of people in
the world who would love to buy what I'd
love to sell if they only knew I
existed. And so while most people who
are in sales are looking for somebody to
sell something to, I'm always looking
for ways to make myself more findable
for people who already want to buy what
I already want to sell.
>> Cuz it's almost like, you know, you
could make the best burger in town, but
if nobody knows you have the best burger
in town, you don't have the best burger
in town,
>> right? There was one also thing you know
in the interview with James the first
one that we did you had mentioned that
you know broke people they trade time
for money but wealthy people they create
offers in order to buy the things they
want
>> 100%.
>> What do you think the most fundamental
thing that people get like the average
person that's working that they get
wrong about wealthy people as far as
like you know hey I want to buy this so
I'm going to create an offer make this
revenue and I can go buy it versus like
I'm going to trade my time for money.
You want just one? [laughter]
Okay. Um, one is that they believe the
lie that time is money. Time is not
money. Time is infinitely more valuable
than money. If you run out of money, you
can always get more money, but if you
run out of time, it's game over. You
don't get any more time. So, time is
more valuable than money. But if you
believe that time is money, you will
trade a whole bunch of your time for a
little bit of somebody else's money, and
you will waste a lot of time to save a
little bit of money. But when you
realize time is more valuable than
money, you will use as much of your
money as necessary to buy back the rest
of your life. So, um, like when I buy
something, it doesn't matter whether I'm
buying a bottle of water or I'm paying
for a trip on a private jet or I'm
paying for an an outing on a yacht or if
I'm paying for a world-class vacation.
To me, everything costs the same amount.
No, that no, that can't make sense. No,
it can't make sense. Well, the reason it
doesn't feel like it makes sense is
because most people pay for things with
money they've exchanged their time for.
So, they feel like they're paying for
everything with their life because they
are.
But I use my creativity and I have an
infinite capacity for creativity. So
when I want to buy something, I
literally create something that somebody
else will value enough to pay me for it
and then I make an offer to pay for that
thing. That's how I pay for everything.
But the reality is everybody pays for
everything with offers. It's those of us
who know it who make the best offers and
make the most money.
>> Because the reality is at your job you
made an offer. I'll work for you for
this amount of money and they made you
an offer. If you work for me, I'll pay
you this amount of money. Everybody's
Everybody's making offers whether they
know it or not. But if you learn to know
that you are making offers, it'll change
your life for the rest of your life.
>> I want to go back to the actual turning
point in your life when you kind of came
to this realization that, you know, I'm
not going to get rich working for
somebody else. For the viewers, for
everybody that's watching this, you
know, either in person or even at home,
uh, on on YouTube or whatever platform
they're going to end up seeing this on,
could you kind of tell us a little bit
of like the history of your career? I
know that, you know, you worked some
jobs. You worked in telecommunications.
Like, what was kind of the history and
the turning point for you and going
going all in on entrepreneur?
>> It actually started when I was a
teenager before I even was really
working full-time. I mean, I had
part-time jobs as a teenager, but it
happened one day when my dad came home
from work. He said, "I'm never working
for anybody again." I'm like, "What do
you mean you're never? He's got seven
kids. Like, my six brother, what you
mean you ain't working, bro? You won't
take care of this." Right? I didn't say
that because I didn't talk to my dad
that way. Um, otherwise, it would be one
of my brothers talking to you right now.
Right. Okay. But uh but um but I'm like,
"What does he mean he's not doing this
anymore?" He said, "I'm just working for
myself from now on." And I'm like, "You
can do that? You don't have to have a
job?" And so I saw my dad start working
for himself. He was a plumber. Start
working for himself instead of working
for other people. And when he started
working for himself, he started making
way more money and working way less
hours. I'm like, "Oh, you don't have to
have a job." That was when it first
occurred to me. But I didn't know that I
wanted to be an entrepreneur. I didn't
even know the word entrepreneur. Um, but
when it first occurred to me that I
could get rich as an entrepreneur was
when I went to an Al Williams
opportunity meeting, which it was a
network marketing company that sold
insurance and investments, an AL
Williams opportunity meeting um, in LOL,
Indiana when I was 25 shortly after I
got married. And I met a guy in 1985,
if you can imagine this, in 1985, who
was making $10,000 a month when $10,000
a month was a whole lot of money. I'm
like, and he wasn't particularly
talented and he wasn't particularly like
charismatic. He was just a regular guy.
I'm like, "This guy's making 10,000 a
month. I know I'm about to get rich."
Um, I'm I'm serious. That's That's what
That's really what I thought. Um, little
did I know,
how little did I know [laughter]
until I attempt I went into that field
and I, you know, I was in financial
services and I was terrible at sales. It
took me a year and a half to make my
first sale in that company. Um, but
eventually I became the top salesperson
in our office, etc., etc. So just just
the idea of being able to go out and
have a conversation with somebody and
create cash flow from a conversation
versus, you know, hammering a nail or
digging a ditch or shoveling whatever.
Like I can have a conversation with
somebody and get paid.
>> And people think that's hard. People
like sales is so hard. You know why you
think sales is hard? Because you've
never done anything hard. I've done so
many hard things. I know talking ain't
one of them. Right.
>> Another reason why people think sales is
so hard is because they're terrified of
rejection. I I'm curious to get your
perspective on this. Right. We recently
did a podcast with a very successful
Dallas entrepreneur that sold a roofing
company for hundreds of millions of
dollars and he said that you got to stop
thinking about rejection and taking it
personally. They're not rejecting you.
They're rejecting your offer. Right.
>> Right. So for you personally, how did
you kind of transform your mindset to
handle rejection and kind of turn that
into fuel to keep on pushing through?
>> Yeah, that's a great great question. So
cuz I when I was in AL Williams actually
even before I started making any money I
learned a principle called from a guy
named Hubert Humphrey who is the number
one income earner in that company. I
learned a principle called the law of
averages and the law of large numbers.
So the law of averages is everybody who
sells anything has an average.
If you talk to 10 people maybe your
average is four. You make four out of 10
sales. Maybe your average is one out of
10. Maybe your average is one out of 30.
Doesn't matter. But you have an average
even what most people who are in sales
never talk to enough people to figure
out what their average is. Right? Right.
But you have an average. And so let's
say you can make one sale four sales out
of 10.
And I can only make one sale out of 10.
If we have a sales competition, I can
still beat you because you talk to 100
people and sell 40, but I talk to 500
people and sell 50.
>> That's right. Because that's the other
law that I learned when I was in Ao
Williams. It's called the law of large
numbers. And if you apply the law of
large numbers to the law of averages,
anybody can be successful.
>> That's why they say that volume negates
luck.
>> Boom.
>> Indeed.
>> Yes, sir. And Myin, in the interview
with James, you also said that you not
only believe in God, but you trust God.
>> Trust. And something that I've noticed
in my life is when my habits are in line
with my faith, things just tend to go
right
>> versus like when, hey, I'm getting too
busy on a Sunday and I'm traveling and
I'm not able to, you know, make it to
church or, you know, if there's a day
where I'm busy and I don't get into the
word, you know, I just tend that things
when those habits are not in line,
things don't always go the right way for
you. Where did you learn that foundation
to not only believe in God, but to trust
God?
>> Um, so I was 16 years old. I I people
say when I found I found the Lord. I
didn't find the Lord. I wasn't looking
for him. Okay? [laughter] I was not he
was not on my agenda, right? Um but um
when I came to Christ, I was 16 years
old and I had never read a book before
in my life other than a karate book or a
comic book because I love karate and
comic books were easy to read. Just
keeping it real. Um and my friend who
was also who was a year ahead of me in
school who shared Christ with me, he
said, "Now you need to start reading the
Bible."
I need to what? This big thick book with
no pictures, little bitty words, two
columns. I need to read that. Yep. Well,
okay. I'm in. If that's what you got to
do when you're a part of this thing, I'm
reading the Bible. So, I started reading
the Bible and I started I didn't know
what to expect because I had never read
it before.
And when I started reading the Bible, I
found something that shocked me. I found
that the Bible is not about religion. It
contains religion, but it's not about
religion. It basically gave me practical
stuff. I could do to make my life
better. I'm like, this was in the Bible
the whole time. I've been going to
church my whole life. How come nobody
ever talked about this stuff? Right? And
so that's what I was thinking. Um when I
started reading the Bible and I started
applying those scriptural principles to
my life and every area of my life that I
applied the Bible to got better, like
not a little better, not kind of better,
sort of better, but exponentially
better. My relationships with my
brothers got better. My relationship
with my parents got better. My
relationship with money got better.
Everything got better. And so when I say
I trust God, I don't just trust God. Oh
yeah, you trust God because you're a
religious person. I'm not even a
religious person because to me, religion
is a bunch of rules that people made up
for you to appease God. I don't need to
appease God. God's already appeased God
for me. And so when I say I trust God,
it means I believe that the Bible
is the inherent accurate literal word of
God. and I take it literally and I take
it seriously and I do my best to apply
it to my life.
>> Is there an example of a scripture or a
time or a situation in your life where
you were like, "Hey, I'm trying to make
a decision about something." And you
went to the scripture and you saw
something that you were like, "Oh man,
this is helping me get the answer." Like
you were able to almost check your
business decision, your business
decision against something that you read
in the Bible.
>> Yeah. like, and I I literally do that
every like if I'm reading a book and
somebody says something that sounds
really good, I'm going to check it
against scripture. Um, if I'm evaluating
a business deal, I'm going to check it
against scripture. If I'm having an
interaction with a business person, I'm
looking at collaborating with that
person, I'm going to I'm going to like
literally look at that through the lens
of scripture because I don't want to
attach my name to everybody.
>> And so, like literally, it's just my
go-to guide. So when I was when I was 17
years old, I started going to this
Christian school, right? And it was a
little bitty Christian school. Maybe had
40 50 students. Not not I mean little
Christian school. I was in the I was in
the 11th grade.
And it was very different than public
school. So at the beginning of class or
before class started, we had this thing
called chapel. And in chapel, you had to
read a passage of scripture out loud.
Say the pledge of allegiance to the
flag. Say the pledge of allegiance to
the Christian flag. and read a passage
of scripture out loud every day for a
month. And you read the same passage
every day for a month. Well, the first
month it was Psalms chapter 1. And and
when you get down, it says, "Blessed is
the man that walks not in the counsel of
the ungodly, nor stands the way of
sinners, nor sits in the seat of
scornful, but his delights in the law of
the Lord, and his law does he meditate
day and night." And then it says, "He'll
be like a tree that's planted by the
rivers of waters that brings forth his
fruit in his season. His leaf won't
wither." And it says this, "And
whatsoever he does will prosper." And I
thought, "Whatsoever he does will
prosper? What if that's true?" I I can
remember thinking as a teen, what if
that's true? Everything he does will
work.
>> Wouldn't that be amazing?
>> And I took it literally and every time
and I just said I just since I was 16,
I'm 64 now. I've been attempting to live
my life according to the principles of
the word of God. And man, does it work
like he said it would work. So yeah,
great question, James.
One of the things that I've noticed
amongst the most successful people is
that you can only work so much while
also keeping a balance. Like it's so
important to keep a balance between
family, friendships, work, and also your
faith. How do you go about managing all
those different buckets of your life
while also be be able being able to
execute at a high level as an
entrepreneur?
>> Yeah. Um, I I I think it's different for
different people and what'll happen is
you'll find you'll find somebody who's
in a season in their life and you'll
attempt to model what they do and you're
in a totally different season and you
modeling what they do ain't going to
work, right? Um, you may be a brand new
entrepreneur. You can't model Myron
Golden, right? Because I believe that I
believe that balance is not the
objective, but it is a season of life.
And focus is the opposite season. It's
never summer and winter in the same
place at the same time. And no person
you will ever see is in focus and in
balance at the same time. When you're in
focus, you're out of balance. And when
you're in balance, you're out of focus.
Now, when I first started as an
entrepreneur, my seasons of focus were
this big. And my seasons of balance were
this itty bitty, like could barely see
them. And the more the longer I worked,
the seasons of focus would get a little
shorter, and the seasons of balance
would get a little bigger. Now, I'm 64
years old. I have a successful business.
I have a great team of people around me.
Um, we've got a lot of momentum. And now
my seasons of focus are about this big
and my seasons of balance are like I my
arms aren't long enough. And so I
believe that God set it up in such a way
from the beginning. Here's he said
here's what you do. You have six days of
focus and one day of balance.
And you do that over a long enough
period of time. And then you have 50
years of focus. I'm I'm sorry. Six years
of focus and then one year of balance.
And then you have 50 years and then
everything goes back to balance. and the
jubilee and so
seasons if you live if you look at life
okay when I'm in focus I'm out of
balance and I'm okay with that when I'm
in balance I'm out of focus I'm okay
with that there there are entrepreneurs
who can't relax they say well I can't
relax I don't like going on vac you I am
not related to you bro I am the king of
relaxation I am I have mastered
relaxation I can take a nap every day
and be happy as a lark in the park you
don't even know right and go on vacation
I don't have to think about work I don't
want to do anywhere work people I got to
get back to work. Not me. So why?
Because I've learned that when I'm in
balance, I'm in balance. And when I'm in
focus, I'm in focus. And they're not the
same thing. And e both are okay. But if
you're young and you're just starting
your business and you want to model me
and have these big old seasons of
balance, these little bitty seasons of
focus, you're going to be out of
business. [laughter]
>> Period. There is a big debate in
business as to whether people should go
into business with friends and family.
oftentimes because that familiarity with
the people that you love, that you grew
up with, the familiarity can breed
comfort. And I content
>> and content. I look at our dynamic. Jack
and I are brothers. We're childhood
friends with Josh. All were in the same
boy scout troop. All became Eagle Scouts
together. Dad served in Iraq together.
And it worked out immensely. But you see
that happens a lot of times in
businesses. And companies ultimately
fall apart because of that. When you mix
kind of business and family and whatnot,
it doesn't.
>> I don't think they fall apart because of
that. I think that that just hap see I
think what happens is we think that
commonality is causality right or and
that's just because something has
something in common doesn't mean that's
the cause there are families that work
great together and there are families
that work terrible together generally
speaking if you got some terrible people
in your family working with them ain't
going to make them better [laughter]
>> for for uh for our viewers I believe
your daughter is the CEO of
>> my daughter's CEO of our company my son
is my partner on my challenge um I've
got two brothers that work for me and
yeah so
>> how do you what's the secret to managing
that dynamic of having a strong family
but also working closely together.
>> Just everybody being respectful of
each other and their role. Like I I
started this business but my daughter
runs a company and when she says we're
going to do it this way, this is the way
we're going to do it. Like I'm I don't
have to be in charge. Like I'm in fact I
prefer [laughter] I prefer not to be in
charge. My favorite thing to do is the
stuff I do. I like to write. I like to
read. I like to teach. I like to go live
on YouTube.
She likes to do all the stuff, manage
all the stuff that's happening behind
the scenes. And she's great at
processes. I'm not. I'm terrible at
processes. So, everybody fits in their
lane. Jeff is great at sales. My brother
Jeff is great at sales. I'm great at
sales, too. I just don't want to do it.
You see what I'm saying? So, so
everybody has their role and we stay in
our lanes. Like, that's how we do it.
And then my granddaughter comes in,
she's sick, she bosses us all around. We
just do what she says and everybody
wins. But th this [laughter] is a a
powerful lesson here cuz in business is
when you have great people put in the
right places, let them do their thing
and run with it. Like even our case in
the beginning, you know, now our
businesses make well over a million
dollars a month. But prior to that, even
when we were kind of, you know,
struggling in the in those early years,
those like trench years of trying to
build hard knocks into a media company,
they had that faith in me where it was
like, dude, just book the flight, go get
the content, you know, that that's the
bread and butter. Keep the main thing
the main thing. You have to let the
people that are great at what they do
lead and just run
>> 100%. 100%. And don't and don't second
guess it. Don't don't make it something
else. You know, opportunities will
present themselves to test whether you
really have the resolve to be the person
you're supposed to be. And obstacles
will present themselves for the exact
same reason.
My son and I don't always agree. My
daughter and I don't always agree. But
we always do what we're supposed to do.
And we're not we're not going to get
we're not going to fall out. And I'm not
talking to that like to like for
families where that stuff happens, that
stuff's going to happen whether you are
in business together or not.
>> There's something also I I love about
what you just said is that you don't
always agree. I think if you have
friends, family, or the people of trust
around you that always agree with you,
those are your friends.
>> Exactly. Cuz for the wounds of a friend,
>> you need the people who are going to
give you the hard truth and tell you the
things that no one else is going to tell
you
>> 100%
>> of, you know, hey, I don't think that is
the best idea. maybe we should go this
direction. And that's something that I
feel like the three of us really pride
ourselves on it is no. Yes, men. And of
course, there's a way to do it
constructively.
>> Sure.
>> But like if someone is just always
giving you the yes, yes, yes. That's
something you should run away from.
>> 100%. I concur. If
>> if you know, if I'm hiring you to join
our team, I'm not hiring you because I
want you to just do everything that I
say. I'm hiring you because you have a
unique ability and a specialty to make
this thing better. I'm hiring you
because you're better at this thing than
I am. 100%.
>> And so how am I gonna know the best
thing to do for this? I hired you to be
able to tell me that. So
>> you guys are really smart for young
folks. Y'all [laughter]
got chance. Y'all can clap it up for
them. You guys [applause] y'all are
something else.
>> It's cuz we get to learn from legends on
a daily basis like you, my friend.
>> The best business education in the
world, but trash man to the cashman. So
I think you're a perfect person to
answer this question. When we had that
podcast with the same guy that James
mentioned that sold the roofing company
for nine figures, we were going around
the table trying to figure out why do
why do poor people stay poor? Why do
broke people stay broke? And I've always
kind of looked at it, it's like, hm,
[clears throat]
you know, when you're
born, everybody's born with a different
set of cards. Like you're at the poker
table or whatever. And it's kind of like
[laughter]
>> I'm imagining a baby at a poker table.
>> Why does this guy have this diaper at
this poker table? Anyway, [laughter]
>> in in in in the game of life,
everybody's dealt a different set of
cards, and it's like, how do you play
them? How do you handle that hand of
cards that you were dealt?
>> Sure.
>> Um, and we were trying to go around with
ideas. It's like, hey, like, you know,
with, you know, it's 2026, like you have
AI, everything that all these tools that
you could use at your disposal. We
couldn't really come up with a great
answer. And then for you, for someone
that, you know, during our interview
with you, the laugh that you let out
when James asked, "Have you ever been
broke before?" [laughter]
was universal and honestly you probably
led to the virality of that interview
part of it.
>> Yeah.
>> So Myin, what do you think? Um you know
as somebody that would went from a place
of where you know struggling
>> I was poor.
>> Poor I was I was
>> Yeah.
>> to to being the cash man being wealthy.
>> What do you think most people get that
are stuck in that environment or that
that are stuck in that sort of financial
situation that they struggle to you know
get out of it?
>> Yeah. I think I think the biggest
problem is that they make the mistake of
believing that where they are is who
they are. Um and they get their idea
identity from their environment
insteading instead of getting their
identity from the ultimate identity
which is God. And and what I mean by
that is like God [laughter]
God says Moses, hey Moses, I want you to
go down to Pharaoh's office and tell him
I said let my people go. Now Moses asked
Pharaoh a question.
And when I was a kid, I used to want to
coach Moses so bad. That is not what
kind of question is that, bro? Right?
He's like, who shall I say has sent me?
I'm like, what is that? What does that
even mean? Like, well, who should I say
sent me? And then I realized Moses
wasn't the one that needed the coaching.
I was the one that needed the coaching.
Because Moses realized something I
didn't realize, and that is that
authority is always an identity issue.
When does a private have more authority
than a sergeant or a captain or a
lieutenant when he's on orders from a
general? And so, so identity, everything
in our lives pours out of our identity,
who we see ourselves as. And if you look
around and you see poverty and you
believe that that poverty is who you
are, instead of believing that it's
where you are, then you're going to
identify that. And identity produces
activity.
And if you see yourself as a poor
person, then you are going to do
activities that will make you poor. And
activity produces property. And if
you're doing activities that make you
poor, the property that you're going to
have is going to be limited. That's so
they just don't know who like the thing
that causes people to stay stuck is that
they don't know who they are based on
who's they are. That's the whole thing.
Would you also agree part of it is, and
this was kind of my answer to that
question when we were going around the
table, is that broke people know
everything.
>> You can't [laughter]
you can't teach a broke person anything.
>> Oh,
>> it is it that's [laughter]
>> they know everything. You know, you try
and give them advice and you just have
to you just have to be like, "This isn't
even you already know."
>> And they and then they got they got a
pocket full of yabbits. Yeah, but what
about this? And yeah, but what about
that? And yeah, but what about that?
Right. They got a pocket full of
yabbits. Um
Anyway, um
the scripture says, "My people are
destroyed for lack of knowledge." But
here's what's really interesting. The
next thing it says is because thou has
rejected knowledge, I will also reject
thee. It wasn't that the people couldn't
know that they didn't know. It was that
they wouldn't know that they didn't
know. What is the biggest hindrance to
learning? Thinking that you already
know.
>> Boom.
>> [laughter]
>> Myin, you know, we've interviewed
probably 40 plus billionaires on School
of Hard Knocks,
>> hundreds of multi-millionaires. And for
me as a Christian, I've met some
amazing, some of the nicest people ever
that are the wealthiest.
>> And I know that in this, and this is I'm
actually more so asking for my personal
understanding. Uh, I know that in the
scripture sometimes, you know, Jesus
said, you know, a rich it's harder for a
rich man to get into heaven than, you
know, the the camel, right, with the
hump going through a sewing needle.
>> Yeah. Mhm.
>> What's your take on that?
>> Well, I I my take Well, first of all,
I'll say this. My take doesn't matter.
>> It doesn't matter. Your my take, your
take, somebody else's take. The only
take that matters is God's take.
>> And so and so I did a whole I did a
whole Bible study on that. I've got a
whole Bible study on it on YouTube, but
I'm going to explain it to you now
because you ask me right now. That way,
people don't have to go look for my
YouTube channel and find it. So,
um, people think of that as the story of
the rich young ruler, but it's not the
story of the rich young ruler. It's the
story of the children and the rich young
ruler. And if you leave the children out
of the story, you cannot understand the
context. And if you don't understand the
context, you can't understand the text.
So, here's the context.
Jesus had performed a miracle and people
were bringing their children to Jesus so
he could lay hands on them and pray on
them. But the disciples said, "Get those
kids out of here." They didn't say that,
but they they didn't want the kids to be
brought to Jesus. Jesus said, "Allow the
little children to come unto me and
forbid them not, for of such is the
kingdom of heaven." Right after that
happens, this rich young ruler comes to
Jesus and he says,"Good master,
what good thing shall I do that I may
inherit eternal life?
Jesus said, "Why callst thou me good?"
Why are you calling me good? Was Jesus
asking that because he wasn't good? No.
Why was he asking that? Because the he
said, "Good master, what good thing must
I do?" What Jesus is saying, either
you're going to be good or I'm going to
be good for you, but we can't both be
good.
Right? So, he said, "Why why are you
calling me good?" But nevertheless,
if you want to enter into life, keep the
commandments. Well, does a person enter
into life by keeping the commandments?
No. Was Jesus lying to the man? No. He
was giving the man an opportunity to
say, "I've tried to keep the
commandments and I can't." Because the
scripture tells us the law was our
school master to bring us to Christ. The
law, the purpose of the law is to show
us that we can't keep the law.
>> That's what it means when it says the
law of the Lord Lord is perfect
converting the soul. So, so, so he said,
why call keep the keep the commandments?
So, instead of the man saying, I've
tried and can't, he said, well, which
ones?
So Jesus names a bunch of them that he
knows the guy has kept. And then one of
the he knows the guy's not keeping. He
said, "Thou shalt not murder. Thou shalt
not steal. Thou shalt not bear false
witness. You shall honor your father and
your mother. And thou shalt not commit
adultery and love your neighbor as
yourself." You know what the man says?
"All of these have I kept from my youth
up." H So if you can imagine it like
you're watching a movie.
Jesus says, "Hm, you've kept all of
them, huh? All of them. All of them.
Okay. You love your neighbor like you
love you. Well, it looks like you really
love you. I can tell by that outfit you
got on, you really love you. I can tell
by those shoes you're wearing, that
chariot you rolled up in. Yeah, you
really love you. So, here's what you do.
Go sell all that stuff that you bought
because you love yourself and give it to
the poor who you just told me you love
as much as you love yourself.
>> And then come and follow me.
>> And then when he heard that, he's like,
uh,
I don't love him that much. I'm out. And
so, so the Bible says he went away
sorrowful.
And people make the mistake of thinking
that Jesus told him to sell his
possessions because possessions are bad.
No, he told him to told him to sell his
possessions because the man just lied to
Jesus's face and said, "I love my
neighbor like I love myself. So go prove
it." When he went away sorrowful, he
said,
"Hardly shall a rich man enter into the
kingdom of heaven. In fact, verily,
verily, I say unto you that it's easier
for a camel, and I believe that's a
literal camel. And I know people talk
about a gate in Jerusalem. I was there.
I asked everybody. Nobody could show me
the gate. So, it's talking about a real
needle with a real camel. I'm just
saying. Okay. So,
I believe Jesus is talking about a
literal camel and a literal needle. He
said, "It's easier for a camel to go
through the eye of a needle than it is
for a rich man to enter into the kingdom
of heaven." Now, what happened right
after that? You know what it says? The
disciples were exceedingly amazed and
said, "Well, who then can be saved?" Why
did they say that? Why did they say
that? Because they thought Jesus was
talking about money, too.
Because Abraham was rich. Abraham was
the first person the Bible tells was
rich. Isaac was rich. Jacob was rich.
David was rich. Solomon was rich. All
these people were rich. They were rich.
Their parents were rich. They had a
business that had lasted for
generations. So, they were confused.
You're like, you're saying that a rich
but the word that Jesus that's
translated into the word rich in English
comes from the Greek word poose
which means figuratively rich.
The only other time that word is used in
the Bible is in 1 Corinthians uh 2
Corinthians chapter 8 verse number 9
where it says you know the grace of our
Lord Jesus Christ that though he was
rich that's the word placeos yet for
your sakes he became poor that you
through his poverty might be rich the
word Jesus was rich in righteousness we
were poor in righteousness for our sakes
he became poor what he became sin why
that we might be rich in righteousness
we might have his righteousness so when
Jesus said scarcely shall a rich man
enter the kingdom of heaven. In fact,
it's easier for a camel to go through
the eye of a needle than it is for a
rich man to enter into heaven. It wasn't
talking about somebody who's rich in
money. It was talking about somebody who
was rich in self-righteousness. It's
imposs what was he saying? It's
impossible for a person who's rich in
self-righteousness to enter into the
kingdom of heaven. And that's why when
the disciples asked him, they said, "Who
then can be saved?" Jesus gave them this
answer. With men, it is impossible. What
it? Salvation is impossible. But with
God, all things are possible. That is
the context and that is what the passage
actually means.
>> Wow.
>> Clap it over right there. [applause]
>> One of my favorite things about running
this channel is that, you know, not only
do we get to spend so much time with
some of the most successful business
people, you know, people from all
different industries, you know, all the
time, and we're getting to implement
things that we learn from them into our
businesses, connect with them, get in on
deal flow, all that stuff. But as you
know, three young guys, 23, 25, and 27,
we're also getting to study and observe
the different traits and habits that a
lot of these, you know, top level
performers possess.
>> And we noticed that while there's a
great majority of them are genuinely
just incredible people wanting to use
their money for good to impact others,
they want to, you know, build that
generational wealth uh and and
oftentimes do really good with it.
There's also a lot of people where like
Daniel Lubeski says, the only thing more
powerful than greed is the ego and they
let that money they get to their head
and they struggle to stay grounded
>> from spending time with you, from
observing you and you know people like
yourself. You can tell that you're
you're very grounded you have that
humility despite how successful, despite
how wellk known you are. I want to kind
of talk to those people out there that
are and and and two-part question is
part of it because you know oftentimes I
kind of have that realization that even
though hey we're becoming successful
we're growing this big channel we got
one of the biggest channels in the world
I still I'm very insignificant in the
sense that like there is somebody so
much bigger so much more powerful than
me that's the only reason why I'm here
and this is all temporary is that part
of it that helps keep you so grounded
>> yeah that's part of that's part of it
the other part is that I know that every
good gift and every perfect gift is from
above and cometh down from the father of
lights with whom there's no
variableness. Any good thing.
>> Say that again.
>> Every good gift. Sorry. I I know I do
that kind of fast sometimes. Hold on.
Hold on. It's more so we got to we got to
give them time because note takers
are money makers.
>> Every good gift and every perfect gift
is from above and cometh down from the
father of lights with whom there is no
variableness, neither shadow of turning.
So everything good that I have in my
life is a gift. Even the stuff I earned
is a gift because God's the one that
gave me the gift of the ability to earn
it. Even the stuff I've worked hard for
is a gift because God gave me the
ability to work hard for it and get it
and the good sense to work hard to do
the hard work I could do. It's all a
gift. If we if any of us go through life
thinking we have control,
I challenge any of you next time you go
to the funeral of a loved one, exercise
that control and let me know how that
works out for you. Control is an
illusion.
>> And gratitude is something that
everybody can afford, but so few people
are willing to pay for
>> and all you got to do is be grateful and
recognize that it's a gift. Like even
having the opportunity, like I'm having
this conversation with you. That's a
gift. I have people who care enough to
come into our studio and have this and
watch us have this conversation. That's
a gift. I have people who are willing to
do work on my team to make this
possible. That's a gift. If we go
through life and we don't have gratitude
for our the gifts that we've already
received,
like how can we even make room to
receive any more gifts?
>> So, it's it's anything like I get it.
Yeah, we work hard and we have character
and we do tell the truth and blah blah
blah, but
like God blessed me to be able to be
aware enough to do that. It's all a
gift. And if it's a gift, what do I have
to be proud of?
Like, okay, I got this Rolex watch,
right? So, I got this Rolex watch. I can
be all proud because I got this Rolex
watch. Somebody gave me this watch.
I [laughter] didn't buy that watch.
What am I What I got to be proud of?
It's all a gift. Your ability is a gift.
Your skill is a gift. Your your where
you live is a gift. Who your siblings
are is a gift. Who your parents were is
a gift. The business that you have is a
gift. The business that you don't have,
that's a gift. It's all a gift. The
people you love, that's a gift. the
people who hate you. That's a gift. It's
all a gift. Learn to be grateful for it
and let it work in you the way that only
it can work in you.
>> That's powerful stuff right there.
>> The Myron we're seeing today was
probably shaped by thousands if not
hundreds of thousands of people and
probably some some key teachers along
the way.
>> Sure.
>> And I'm a big believer that mentorship
through books, content, proximity is one
of the most powerful things you can get
on on this earth.
>> Hey Josh, it's wisdom without the
wounds.
>> It is. It's it's it's the ultimate
shortcut of hey, you can shortcut the
pain
>> through wisdom. And I'm kind of just
curious for you, how important has
mentorship been for you throughout your
career and also
>> and and also just how to discern what
the right mentor is, you know, at that
given moment because I feel like
mentorship is can sometimes be labeled
as a as a single thing. But I also feel
like there's mentors in different
facets of all of our lives, whether
that's through faith, work, family life,
relationships. Sure.
>> So, how do you kind of go about
discerning that? And how important has
mentorship been for you throughout your
life?
>> Yeah, it's been absolutely critical. Um,
>> every major breakthrough I had in I've
had in my life, I've had because of
mentorship and it it literally started
with my parents. I I've I've got to give
my parents credit.
There's so much that they, for a lack of
better way to say it, there's so much
that they were aware of and didn't
really have a reason to be aware of it
based on how they came up and where they
came up. It just it's it's it blows my
mind the stuff they knew and the stuff
they taught my brothers and I. That
blows my mind. Um, I've had some a
handful of teachers when I went through
school. Um, a lot of mentors in
entrepreneurship. I think about I think
about David Mitchell a conversation like
a a simple conversation I had with him
one day and when I was building my
business and I don't know I was probably
making 30 40,000 a month and you know I
was doing all right and I asked him one
time I might have been making more than
that I said David how many um how many
employees do you have he said oh I don't
know 60 or 70 I said doesn't that make
you nervous he said no you know
Charlotte and I have been praying for
years that the Lord would give us a
business where we could hire Christian
people so they could take care of their
babies. And I'm thinking to myself, who
thinks like that? I've never had that
thought in my life. Like when I'm
thinking about hiring somebody, I'm
like, can I afford to hire them?
[ laughter ] Right. Right. And so, so
conversations like that. Um mentorship
like this guy named Ben Ginder. Ben was
my upline in a multi-level marketing
company. And
I was making I don't know four or
five,000 a month. I was not a big deal.
I was just a guy. Ben was making like
millions, right? And this was back in
the 90s. And I and I was on Ben's team
and I had people on my team. He would
fly to St. Thomas with me and do events
for my team. He would fly to Texas with
me and do events for my team. He would
just he would drive to Florida and do
events. I'm like from Pennsylvania. I'm
like
it's it's people
who
like demonstrated that they cared
when I had apparently nothing to offer
them.
That made me realize, oh, that's the
whole thing. I I was 17 years old. I
went to visit this Bible college. my
friend went to because I was thinking
about going to Bible college and I went
to visit this Bible college and there
was a professor there and his name was
Johnny Pope and I'm 17 and Johnny Pope
he was probably he was 27 at the time
and he but by the time that I graduated
from high school and went there he was
no longer there as a professor and I had
such a great time with him and then he's
off pastoring a church in Houston comes
back to the area he's speaking and he
hadn't seen me in two or three years and
he I was a teenager
a high schooler visiting this his class
when I was 17. And I'm sitting in this
church service with a couple hundred
people and he looks at me, he's like,
"Myron Golden, is that you?"
I'm thinking to myself, "What? [snorts]
How does this guy?" Because he was he
was the deal. He still is kind of the
deal in my book. How does this guy
remember me?
And I remember every time I've ever been
in a room with Pope, every time without
exception,
he's always made me feel like I was one
of the most important people in his
life. And I can remember thinking as a
teenager, as a 20some, as a 30ome, as a
40ome. I was probably in my late 30s,
mid for early 40s. I'm in a conference
in Jacksonville, Florida. There's 3,500
people there. He's speaking at this
youth rally, right? I'm in the balcony.
He said something funny because he's a
really funny guy. He said something
funny. I started laughing. He's like,
"Myron Golden. That sounds like Myron
Gold's laugh." Myron, is that you? Are
you here? Like, what?
And I always remembered feeling like I
was the most important person in Pope's
universe when I was with him. And Pastor
Johnny Pope, sorry, Dr. Pastor Johnny
Pope. Um, we used to refer to him as
Pope when he was a professor, but Pastor
Pope, Johnny, Dr. John. Um, I can
remember thinking if I could just make
people feel around me like he makes me
feel when I'm around him, I have lived a
good life.
Now, that's a mentorship lesson that has
nothing to do with money, but it has
