stop what you're doing. The way you're
approaching trading is likely why you're
not yet consistently profitable. But
that can change starting right now.
You've probably seen countless videos
promising quick profits and foolproof
strategies. Let's cut right through the
noise. Building a successful trading
career isn't about finding a magic
indicator. It's about building a robust
trading business that pulls consistent
profits from the market. How do I know?
I'm Mike Bellafiori, co-founder of SMB
Capital, a premier proprietary trading
firm with offices in New York City and
Miami. We've built our reputation on one
thing, creating elite traders. Many of
our traders consistently earn seven and
even eight figures a year because we
provide them with a blueprint that
works. In this video, we're going to
share a piece of that blueprint with you
so you can start building a trading
business that lasts and pulls consistent
profits from the market. If you're
serious about your craft, your search
for real actionable guidance ends here.
Let's get started. Feel all excited and
nervous at the same time. I don't think
it would be I wouldn't be human to feel
feel nervous in a high performance
opportunity. I trust myself that I'll do
good. I I trust the analysis and the
trade. I've gotten good guidance from
SMB. Team is going to do great near this
20-day moving average, which is our red
line here. And that's the convergence of
this pivot low VWAP on 523, which is
that pink line. We rallied back above.
And we've been holding that year to date
VWAP since
since the um we'll just stick to the
levels. Just stick to the chart. Stick
to this. Yeah. That's um May 12th. May
12th. Yeah. So that's cool that you know
that cuz then you could help me. Yeah,
that's with that and you could say the
news for that day. The one thing I'd
like to maybe that we could have that he
may not do is like what were the ticks
doing that day? I don't know. I don't
know. I don't know the breath. We had
gapped up into that year-to- date VWAP
and that year VWAP high and traded 439%
above its 20-day average volume.
[Music]
Yeah.
Yeah.
The opportunity is really about
competing. It's really about showcasing
what you've learned and what you've been
challenged by.
This is your opportunity to compete.
This is your opportunity to stand out.
Let's see how you guys do.
The playbook's an exercise that you guys
should be doing every day. It's an
exercise where at the end of the day,
you should go back and you should look
for a trade that really worked. Either
you made it and it really worked and it
makes a lot of sense to you or you heard
or saw or found out or spotted a trade
that really worked that maybe you
weren't in that you're going to go back
and you're going to break down. The
playbook is a template that we've put
together that helps you to break down a
trade into certain components into
certain variables so that you can study,
study, study the heck out of the best
trades. Every day at the end of the
close, go back and deconstruct in this
playbook template form a trade that made
the most sense to you, whether you made
it or whether you spotted it. All right,
make sense? And then you're going to
compile all of these playbook trades
from session after session of you
trading. And that is going to be what
you look to to build your trading
business. You're going to fret it
through the playbook trades that you've
done and you're going to pick out the
trades that you like the best that you
trade the best in real time and you're
going to do more of them. Okay? You'll
measure your success with these trades
in real time. The ones you do best,
you'll keep more of. The ones that you
don't do well with, you'll eliminate.
All right? But you should not be making
any trades
during real time, during market hours
that are not already in your playbook.
If you are making trades that are not in
your playbook, that is you overtrading.
You should know exactly when you get
into a trade why you're in it, what
variable is you were looking for to be
in it, and how you're going to trade it.
Does that make sense? Yes. Okay. And so
to be able to do that in real time,
we've got to do these exercises. This
playbook exercise, we've been doing it
from longer than I can actually even
remember. This is what we've been doing
since
a long time ago that all of our guys do
at the beginning of their careers to
build out how they're going to trade.
Okay, makes sense. All right, so uh
we're going to go through you're going
to effect this up and you're going to go
through a playbook trade that you put
together. You're going to do so in the
template form that we use. Now look,
when you get a little bit older and a
little bit more experienced, you can
individualize
your playbook. Maybe you tweak
something, add something, take something
out. That's fine. At the beginning,
let's stick with the template and get
good at it. All right? But certainly
feel free to individualize it. And what
we're doing for what we're doing for you
here with this template is helping you
to construct a good trade. Helping you
to learn how to think through a trade
like a professional.
That's what you want you to do. All
right? And then from there, when you
learn how to think like a professional,
you're going to be able to create many
more trades than we ever teach you.
All right? and you'll have a diverse,
comprehensive, vast playbook with lots
of opportunity. All right. So, you're
going to run through
this is your first time? This is my
first time. You're going to run through
you uh for the first time a playbook
trade that you guys have put together.
Uh you've done so in a team.
Yes. Okay. And uh we're going to go
through each of the 10 variables that go
into a playbook. All right. So, we're
going to go over the big picture, that's
part of the playbook. Intraday
fundamentals, that's part of the
playbook. Stock selection,
that's part of the playbook. Technical
analysis, hopefully you have that in
there. Uh, trade strategy,
risk management, reading the tape,
technology, trade review, and then I'll
actually grade you guys on diligence
again. All right. Uh, now Jeff talked
about the opportunity. The opportunity
here is for you guys to compete.
Competing means getting a score of 80
or better on each of the 10 variables
which we're going to grade you on. Okay?
And above 80 means you've done well.
You've competed well for this exercise.
Below 80 means needs more work.
Uh we're in week three of the
internship.
This week three, four week four. Week
four. Yeah. Time flies. Okay. Uh so you
guys have been here about four weeks and
uh we'll go through that as always. So
you got to get you got to get better
than 80. How we feeling? Very good. Feel
good. I don't have the tape, so I'm
already starting down to nine. I feel
like uh colleagues, how how we feeling
for these guys? I think they'll do now.
I'm praying for you guys.
I remember I remember the first one I
did of this and it was rough. We have
had playbooks go very poorly in the in
the past.
But don't like like Gary said just a
learning lesson. If the opportunity
comes, we just learn from it. If it goes
really really poorly, just remember
there's there's a lot of room for
improvement. So that's always a
positive. Hopefully that doesn't
hopefully it doesn't happen. Uh I'll try
not to yell you Jeff I can't promise
though. Jeff Jeff may fly off the handle
at you guys. Um, all right. So, this is
your first first crack at in front of
us. What I love So, 80 is the the the
level you got to hit. That's the number
you got to hit. There'll be 10 of these
categories and we'll grade you one to 10
out of each of these categories. All
right. So,
um, why don't you just tell us a little
bit about yourselves and where you're at
in your trading career and then who's
going to be the point person? who's
going to be a point guard. Okay. And
then uh why don't you get to your your
playbook and we'll go through it. So
tell us a little bit about yourself and
and how how you guys got here. My name
is James Domino. I've been trading for
just over three years. I started right
with the winning trader and the DNA
trader. I took that. I went off and got
my CMT, my chartered market technician.
Came back and did the mentorship with
Justin uh LA February 2024.
And um so big everything I've learned is
pretty much from the S&B Capital and a
big advocate who's my CMT sponsor is
Brian Shannon which is gave me a lot of
education on the volume weighted average
prices as we know I like to trade the
VWAP. So that's that's some background
about me.
My name is Felix Dust. I'm from Germany.
Been trading for three years now. Um,
I've been offered a seat at SMB for an
summer internship
and I'm very happy to be here um with a
lot of competitive people, smart people
in this room and I'm very grateful to
learn from this from this from this
group of people. So, I'm Misha Trupo.
I'm from Austin, Texas and I've been
trading for three plus years now. super
grateful to be here and I'm a rising
senior at Mbury College. All right, so
we're going to start out here with the
bigger picture. Here we have the chart
of the S&P 500 and we can see here that
the SPY is gapping down near the 20-day
moving average, which also coincides
with that prior low anchored VWAP from
May 23rd. So we got the red line is the
20-day moving average. That pink is that
prior swing low VWAP that we're gapping
down into, which is our key level of
support is that 593 and 594 level is our
key level of support. We're noting that
we have some overhead resistance at that
round number 600 and 604. So that we're
really monitoring that break of 600 and
hold to to confirm the upside
continuation.
20 days ago, which is that red vertical
line that goes across the chart. That
that was the neckline of resistance, and
we've been rejecting that. And then
we've actually broke above it uh the
prior three days, and it's the first
time we're pulling back and testing this
uh former neckline of resistance.
So, that's our bigger picture for the
spy. Okay. One little thing that I
always find interesting.
This is very good, but we've talked
about this in prior meetings a lot. Is
prior low anchored VWAP from 523.
Okay, great. Why does that matter? That
should be called out on the chart as why
that matters. Why does 523 matter?
523 matters because it's the prior swing
low. If we could see here that we
rallied up to the 600 level on the on
the the vertical line 20 days ago and we
rejected. Yes. And that that was a
potential change. That was when a change
in character from those three down days
started to to change. So it's that's
where the buyers kick back in. Right. So
that's that's
when we talk about specificity, when we
talk about competing, you want to be
able to pull up a playbook 10 years from
now, read it, and instantly understand
what was happening. And so that is
something that is really important to
get right. And it doesn't seem like a
lot when you're writing the playbook,
but think about it as the story of
what's happening. And a good book you
can pick up and read. I mean,
reminiscent of a stock operator. One
good trade. These books were written a
significant amount of time ago and
they're still Wait, what was that second
book? One good trade. I have to check
that out. It was not written that long
ago, but it was written a period of time
ago. But those stories, you pick it up
and you can read it, right? You want
your playbook to be very similar that
you can pick it up and you can just I
understand what was happening here. I
understand the story of what's going on
because that same or a very similar
version of that story is going to play
out over and over and over again. And
you don't want to have to think through
all the variables or like pull it
together. You want it just right there.
Right? So it's a noticing why did I put
that? What's really the significance of
that? If you thought it was important
enough to put it in there, why was it
important enough to put it in there?
Okay. Yeah, it was that prior swing low.
So, we had that rejection of 600 and we
could actually see it held the handoff
VWAP from the year-to- date high which
is the green which is the green um
anchor VWAP. So, really quickly, you
want to say the buying started here. I'm
looking at the anchor VWAP from that
where that where I saw the buying start.
That's it. Okay. So, so the buying had
started after that rejection from 600.
So, we anchored that VWAP at 523, which
we could see provided an uptrend to to
the prior neckline of resistance and
above. Yep. Simple enough. Yep.
Little things like that matter a lot
when and we're we're talking about half
points in in our scoring process. But
those half points, you really want to
compete to get those half points.
And then we have the similar setup here,
very same chart here on the cues today
here. So, similar setup. We had that gap
down to that 20-day moving average
premises, that same VWAP that we had
that change in character. Um, but the
vertical line we could see 20 days ago
we decline and that was the change of
character where buyers stepped in. So
that that that was the
that's why we anchored that. That gave
us a key support level
of 52440
to 525 and we were looking for
continuation or a breakdown. So, and if
we lost the 524 level, we're going to
monitor the 513.
And we had overhead resistance above at
531, 533, 537.
So, now we're getting into Okay. And so,
I like when we're going over the big
picture to very clearly mark what the
most important technical levels are for
SPY, Q's, and a corresponding ETF. I
think he did that pretty well. I also
like to think about if I were writing
the nightly news for CNBC, what would I
tell the audience are the most important
ingredients that the market participants
are interested in? So, right now tariffs
right now Iran Israel war I think that's
fair to say, right? Yes. Is is the war
with Iran and Israel going to spread or
is is it behind us? are tariffs uh
likely to be behind us or are we gonna
have more of of that as as a headwind?
Okay. And to Jeff's point,
this is going to be your database
from which you do lots of study and
construction of of trades with edge. So,
so make it a really robust one. All
right. Uh Jeff, on a scale of 1 to 10
for a big picture, what what are you
thinking? I mean, I thought this was
actually very good. I had it at like 9.2
probably. And the reason being is
because you clearly identified
what was happening in the bigger
picture.
You clearly identified the areas that
were very important to you in this
trade.
And although we did identify a couple
things that you could do better, this is
a very very good start.
Thank you. I think you're a little bit
of an easy grader, but okay. 9.2.
Let's move on. Yeah. All right. Just to
include too, we do have relating to what
you had said, let's just go here.
Technical analysis, we got RH here now.
So, we got the chart. We have the 20-day
moving average, which is a red line. 50
days is our blue. And we have our
year-to- date premises. So, we have the
we have earnings and we're gapping up
into where we could see is the year-to-
date and the year-to- date VWAP high.
And if we look left at the chart 20 days
ago, which is our red vertical line,
price had gapped up into this premises.
And we could look at what what did it
do? It completely failed. Right? We look
left at the chart. We have the vertical
line that's 50 days ago. just left of
the 50 days ago, just left of the data
50 days ago, we have a bounce, a rally
that rallied right into this premises
and failed epically again. So, as we had
this gap up on earnings, we we said
that, you know, we're seeing a similar
pattern here over and over again. So,
that that was the key context that we uh
we're seeing from here. And then we're
digging into the technical analysis even
further to just make an objective view
where we just broke it down saying that
from just simple tech technical analysis
that the RH is trading underneath the
200 day giving that a minus one. Price
is trading
under and rallying into its year-to-
date VWAP and year-to- date VWAP high.
We're giving that minus two which we've
seen in the past. It's rejected. the
50-day moving average is declining and
right although price is just trading
above the slope is declining when you're
saying minus one uh and minus2 what do
you mean by that so out of these
indicators of of three moving averages
and three VWAPs we're just kind of
giving a a positive score and a negative
score from to be objective on our
technical analysis
so with that being said is that you know
um if we're trading above an average
we're going to give it a positive score.
We're trading below. We're going to give
it uh a negative. And so we can see here
that the the overall technical setup is
when we place this on is we're giving it
a minus four out of six as it layers
into the resistance. So the only
positive factor from the technical view
is that the RH is just holding that
year-to- date VWAP low, which we can see
is the gold line that's been holding
this up. Every gap since April 2nd, as
we mentioned, has been sold into and the
stocks have been just showing relative
weakness. Okay. Uh Jeff,
technical analysis. Let's go back to
that real quick. Let me go back to this.
On a scale of 1 to 10, what are we
giving them? There are some really good
positives here.
We love when you can systematize
anything
and particularly when you can
systematize the quality of the
opportunity that you're looking at. So
in this case, you're creating a scoring
system which is systematically allowing
you to
look at the opportunity.
I get concerned with this because
there are things that you're missing
within this system. Very simple things
that really could be easy to capture.
It's trading below its declining 200 day
moving average. Well, the declining
moving average could be one. Trading
below it could be a different one.
It's also trading under and rallying its
into its year-to- date VWOP and year-to-
date high. Negative -2. Those are great,
but how far under? Is it within 5%? Is
it within 10%. Like those are little
things that can make a huge difference
when you're going back and looking at
not just this opportunity, but hundreds
of opportunities over the course of your
trading career like that.
You are correct that overall the
technical setup is weak, but I'd like to
see a little more evolution in the way
that you're scoring it. I do think it's
very good though and I will stay soft in
my scoring. I'm going to give it an
eight out of 10. I was going to do it
8.5, but that's why I got in there.
Okay, there you go. All right, that's an
eight. Okay. And it's funny. Um, we're
all fractional on different time frames.
I literally was thinking about the
percentage of the daily VWAP and the
two-day VWAP as I'm getting these plays
and starting to study that and this is
certain distance away. So, it's so
relevant right now. This is exactly why
you do the playbook exercise is because
we could conceptually
come up with the best opportunity. We
can sit here and talk about the best
things that are going to occur, but what
we're doing what by doing the playbook
is you're getting
you're getting more specific just by
doing that exercise. And then you're
allowing yourself to come up with what a
lot of people would call is creativity,
but really it's just you understand the
reps and you understand how the how
these things play and you can think
about, yeah, what's the spread on this
anchored VWOP versus that anchored VWAP?
And then you extrapolate that out and
people are like, wow, they're he's
brilliant at coming up with these
setups. And it's like, no, you've just
done the work. Yeah, it's really not
rocket science. It's just you doing the
work and you recognize these things over
and over and then you stay curious and
you pull on some threads and find some
edge there and you pull on something
else and you find some edge here and all
of a sudden it all comes together and it
looks like you just pulled this out of
nothing, but it's just these little
pieces that all get put together
playbook after playbook after playbook.
Yeah, the little things make the big
things happen. They do.
So
hand it over to Felix here background.
I'm going to take over this slide here
because we came up. This is a little bit
more about the stock story. We had
earnings on the day before than after
hours. We had a positive reaction to it
because they reported revenue that was
slightly um under or at the the
estimates. They had a 12%
growth year-over-year. And what was
surprising and what I believe to be the
catalyst for the first reaction up, the
reported EPS beat. Uh the market were
was
um expecting a negative EPS and they
reported a positive EPS.
um
non-GAAP and um so this is first of all
a quite a good sign um they're keeping
the outlook for 10% growth of the year
under the assumption that the terrorists
will not change this is a bet in my
opinion this is a bet from the company
um how the market will behave um
for me personally this is not solid
assumption because they have absolutely
no control of this. So they tried to
reduce the China sourcing from 16 to 2%
which did not happen yet. um they had
lower operating margins than the year
before. And so I had a quick look at the
income sheet of the company from the
company's website. And that's actually
why we wanted to show you this because
it took us 3 minutes to to pull this
sheet up, have a quick look at it, and
to get a framework around these reports,
around these earnings reports. Um,
you look at it and you see margin did
not improve. The stock is weak. You look
at the net income and you see that this
net income solely came out of a
different company Aspen LLC. Um
they they claimed like represents the
portionate proportionate share of the
net income of our equity methods
investments. So that means that RH did
not make any money but the whole uh
income of this company came from another
company. So why would this EPS beat
matter to the stock story?
They did not improve their core
business. They just they adjusted maybe
their numbers to shine a good spotlight
at the right places to impress the
market. And
I like to look at it. I mean, I'm not an
an expert in this and I don't think you
should or need to actually put in a lot
of hours into this, but this is an
example um where like three minutes look
at it and then you have have an idea
about this and together with the
technical anal analysis from James, we
put up a trading plan for this.
That's literally the single best in
terms of intraday fundamentals. That's
the single best description
that I've actually ever seen. Oh, thank
you.
I mean, I can't stress enough how much I
love love love how you went to the
income income sheet and
very quickly, and Spencer would love
this, by the way, because Spencer loves
all things that point out how foolish
people are in Wall Street.
He he he he could make a living off of
that. Maybe actually probably does. Um
that was terrific.
That was really good. There's two
important principles that I want to
point out that are super important for
the younger people in this room with a
little bit less experience. Anytime you
see the first the first one is anytime
you see lower operating margins I
actually think that should be in red.
That's a huge deal. The street
hates
when margins are going down. the street
shoots first and asks questions later
about companies that have margins that
are declining.
Essentially, for the young people, that
just means whatever they make, they're
making less money on it. That's terrible
for a business.
It's one of the most important things to
look at in a report. our margin and and
and the opposite of that is anytime you
see margins are increasing,
the street loves that,
right? It's one of the most important
things to to call out of a report. And
the second thing is,
the second thing is from this is that
you pointed out and got right to the
heart heart of the matter of how is the
core
of the business doing? And when you're
looking at an earnings report, you you
do want to call that out. How how is the
core of this business doing? And so
there can be lots of times where, hey,
maybe somebody sold some real estate
that they had on the books for a long
time and the revenue is higher and the
profits are higher, but that's not what
they do. They just have a piece of
property or they've got this fancy tax
loss that they can take and they take it
and the numbers look great, but it's a
one-off and that's not what they do.
They're not in the business of tax
harvesting.
Um and then you know to the flip side of
that it can be the case where you know
the core business is really expanding
and they're growing. The street the
street loves that. Okay. But I just I
just this is so good. I don't even have
to go over to the board. Like that's a
it's literally the best that I've ever
seen in this room. Okay. On in
fundamentals. Great job. 10 out of 10.
Awesome. So, we came up with a trade
strategy and we learned from Jeff that
gap into resistance or support and we
had
a look at the what was working in the
markets before and since James pointed
out the technicals we came up with two
scenarios. First scenario gap into
resistance and push higher. So basically
bull case um that would have meant um
after the after hours pre-market
consolidation around $212 it would
continue to the 220 area consolidate
again and breaks above with a target of
226 and 230. That was scenario number
one, but we favored from the beginning
scenario number two, which was gap into
resistance and fade, which it actually
did. Um, we assumed this would spike
this after hours pre-market earnings
reaction would continue
uh right at the open and then fails. And
we were looking for a reversion to
Weebop
and then target the pre-market lows. Um,
we thought, okay, maybe this is some
sort of consolidating at the pre-market
lows and then fails again down to 188 or
190. Um, yeah. So, our risk allocation
was an A, not an A+ because of the
liquidity. This is not a highly liquid
stock. So, first of all, no big size is
possible. there's a there's a ceiling to
the scalability of this whole play. Um,
which is not our problem at the moment.
Um,
but our problem could be slippage and a
widening spread on volatile brutal
moves. So we would grade this as an A
allocation not an A+ and we would go for
around 50 maybe um start to scale into
the position especially if this um
opening high did fail
and scale into the position while going
down. Jeff,
it's good you guys are trading the setup
there and
I would like to see, you know, we talked
about it yesterday and the day before of
trading the setup versus the trade. You
have the setup there.
The one thing that's super interesting
to me is
if you have this setup playing out, you
did put the subset variables in there of
sort of the trades, but they're not put
out. Put the trade in there. what kind
of trades sort of there. They're not
specifically called out. So, I think
it's still very good. Um,
I don't like the fact the one thing I
really don't like is you have scenario
one which is not the one that you're
looking for and you didn't talk about
the risk unless you're going to risk 50
to 80% on the long. No,
you guys made a very compelling argument
to not risk any money on the law and you
have scenario one saying we'll put some
risk on the law. So, that's a good point
and I think that's just wasn't thought
about. Uh, we definitely would want to
be thinking the the a setup was the gap.
It's a resistance and then would be
doing a smaller size on on the chase,
but I didn't even think about that. So,
that's you want to be really careful
with this. So that's why the very first
thing we had everybody do here, the very
first day was write out your sizing
scorecard.
It doesn't seem that important, but the
difference between just using an example
from today of some of the trades that
some of the traders made. We had two
guys that are about two years in now put
up one of the biggest trades of the
month because they recognized it was an
A+ opportunity.
They might not get another A+
opportunity for two weeks.
They're still going to be trading every
single day for two weeks. They're going
to be in there every single trade.
Their risk allocation is going to be
completely different for anything that's
not A+.
So it doesn't it seems like an
intellectual exercise
but it's a habit that you build and it
permeates everything that you do so that
it can become instantaneous. So for
something like this we'd want you to get
an eight out of 10 or better. I don't
think you get to eight here. Why?
Um well there's no stops number one. Um
like a potential area where we're wrong.
I think that could be definitely should
be inserted. Uh I think Jeff hit the
nail on the head and I think for future
references if I'm going to put these
scenarios to make sure to pro to
allocate the proper risk for each
scenario. So that's two things I think
that definitely can use some
improvement.
I do do this on a lot of the trades
which what Jeff said was almost what I
would look for is like backside. Okay.
And then there's another reason which is
what
and it's it's the big difference between
what we're going to teach you guys here.
You guys are here to become skilled
active bionic discretionary traders.
You're not here to generate ideas and
then push the buttons. You're here to
generate ideas but then also be a
skilled, active, bionic, discretionary
trader.
Skilled means what? Being really good at
what?
Risk management. What's being a skilled
trader? You're really good at what?
Discipline.
Execution, right? Execution. And so I
don't know what you mean by fails.
That's not spec. That's not good enough
to be a skilled active bionic
discretionary trader.
You you've gota you've got to have some
variables behind exactly what fails
means.
Maybe it means a break of a two-minute
candle. Uh maybe it means description of
serious weakness that's really clear
that I can see on the tape. Maybe it's a
break of a trend line. Honestly, I'm not
I'm not really that concerned at this
point about how you define it, although
I would be later. Yeah. But you got to
define it. And it's the different and
not defining it is a difference between
why our firm at our firm, our traders
outperform people on the street in our
space and why other people in our space
who even make money can't hold the
candle to our best traders. it's because
they're not specific enough about their
entries and their exits. Okay, so I I
wanted to find that. So, we're gonna go
seven on that. Okay, let's move on.
So, we're getting to the trade
management. We're going to the next
slide we're going to zoom into more
detail. Just this is a fivem minute
chart. I just wanted to give us the the
aftermarket earnings reaction and
um Garrett has even tal talked about it
too is putting that anchor VWAP from the
event which is that maroon line which
also kind of correlates with with uh
Mike was just saying is what would
confirm that breakdown what would
confirm that break that failure of 200
and I was monitoring that anchor VWAP to
be um start to act as resistance. So
this is just a five minute chart of the
aftermarket and the intraday trade
action. And now we're going to just zoom
in here and talk about what happened
here. So in the pre-market we had the
gap down from the earnings reaction and
then we filled that gap. We could see in
the pre in the pre-market we got a
little shake out on the opening drive
and then we ripped up to the 222
premises 220. So ideally we were looking
for it to hold the aftermarket high. So
this was the scenario where we looked to
see it break above 220 and that bullish
scenario we would have been likened to
see the 220 hold right and we could see
we had a fast failed move and almost
like a backside short right and then
that's actually where I started to enter
on number one was the entry of the break
of the VWAP for a fashionable late
risking the high a day and I really I
was this is more of like a feeler
because that we're still in a the range
right down um and I'm playing my bias,
right? So then I covered into the lower
day premises, but then once we rallied
back up and held underneath the VWAP and
retested the 9 EMA
at bullet three, you could see here that
we added back to the on the reclaim of
the 9 EMA
and we actually then added to the short
again on the break on. Okay, so one
thing about when you do your playbook
trade, so when you do your playbook
trade, we just go over one trade. Okay.
So, I love uh how ambitious you are to
go over lots of trades, but when you do
a playbook, it's just one trade, very
specific on the variables, and you just
go over that. Okay. Okay. Uh second
thing, so you've got like six trades
here. Uh so maybe I'll let you pick one.
So, just pick one. Let's stick with the
um opening range break here at bullet
four here. All right. So, we had the
opening range break at at at bullet
four. So you can see on the opening
drive we dipped to the earnings VWAP
that maroon line we rallied up right
this was the change in character at
bullet four. This one is four at bullet
four. Yep. You could see that at this
point we've broken the low of day
already and there kind of preceding that
was like our opening range break. So we
broke the low of day and we're retesting
this. So support is now potentially
being retested as resistance. We're
risking that blowoff candle and we're
looking to trade this into the 2-day
VWAP which we covered into 198 which was
a little early. Um we actually at 7 we
covered into the week to date and okay
so so four is the entry. Four is the
entry. Seven is the exit. Seven is the
exit. Why why the entry? What's four?
Why are we entering there? Four was uh
opening range break. Okay. Um and it's a
little bit Okay, good. Yeah. before
opening cover is cover was um the week
the debate view app and prior debut app
which they were converging. Got so like
that trade. Okay. And I think that's
probably a move to move trade
and I love that you're working on move
to move trades at the beginning of your
career. I think that's great to learn
how to scalp make moveto move trades. I
don't think though and I think that's
great. Okay. I think that's great and
I'm going to encourage you guys to do
more of that because I think that's how
you really learn how to trade.
But
this is not a move to move trade. This
is a trade to hold. Okay. This is a
trade to hold. Why?
The the bigger view, the bigger picture.
Yeah. I mean, if I were to if I were
just ask you guys, hey, in terms of a
news catalyst on a scale of 1 to 10, and
we're always looking for stocks that
have catalysts. Either they have a
technical catalyst or they have a news
catalyst. This has a news catalyst,
right? This has a negative news
catalyst, right? On a scale of 1 to 10,
how would you grade this in terms of
negativity? 10 being super negative
uh for a news catalyst.
What would you say? I would say nine.
That's what would you say? I was saying
nine. Yeah. What would you say? At least
a nine. Yeah. At least a nine with the
at least a nine. And when you get
something with this negative a news
catalyst,
What's it going to do? I'm struggling
with this because if I'm the only smart
person in the room and everybody around
me is stupid and buying this, I'm wrong.
Certainly. And then if that were the
case, you would get stopped out or you'd
have a system where you would exit
because you notice that the stock's not
going down anymore. So it doesn't mean
I'm not suggesting you get short and you
don't do anything. Yeah, I'm suggesting
when you have such a negative news
catalyst, you've got to turn on your
trade to hold hat. Mhm. All right. We
had I won't mention his name because he
likes to be really secret and he told
you guys the only place that he comes to
talk is here. Um but don't tell anyone.
Remember we had we had a very large prop
firm owner here who doesn't like to be
named who we will not name. and he said
that there's a difference between
scalping, which his firm does a lot of,
and then you got to turn on your
trade to hold hat
for certain trades, and and not scalp
it. That doesn't mean in a trade to
hold, if you're sitting there, you're
like, I think it's going to go down. I
get it in a good spot and it's not going
down, and it's not going down. It's not
going down, it's not going down, that
you you don't get out because that would
be part of your system. But what it does
mean is that
this is something to try and capture an
intraday trend on at a minimum.
That that that is the focus for because
you're not going to get I think this is
like a nine and a half out of 10 in
terms of a negative news catalyst.
You're not going to get that a lot.
What? So I think you got it and I how
you know if you're a if you're at a big
hedge fund or a big institution, how
long does it take for them to start
selling out of their position? Very
quickly. Multiple days. Multiple days,
right?
Yeah. It's going to take them days. And
they've got a lot. It's going to take
them days to get out of this thing. So I
I think you got to I think you got to
find a spot to short this thing and let
it run. Give it a run. And if it doesn't
work, that's fine. But this is just not
a this is not this is not a scout. Yeah.
And and the plays that we just studied
with Garrett too, like this opening
drive has these blowoffs and they've all
turned into
trend trades. Yeah. So to speak with
these when they gap out of the range and
blow off. Yeah. So just a pattern. It's
just too negative a news catalyst not to
let it run. Yeah. So I have a question
like what would your entry be on this
with the knowledge you have and you you
have this price action on the open.
Would you short it against the high? I
would have shorted it. Uh, and I don't
mean to like So, I didn't make I didn't
make this trade. Yeah. Um, so I want to
be clear about this, but based on what
you guys told me, I would have shorted
it here
and I would I would have I would have
set a stop above here. That's and given
it give it a run. Okay. Um, I would have
loved the initial up move
right on the open and I would have
totally wanted to use that to my
advantage because to me I'm I'm making a
trade to hold. And so one of my trade to
holds is going to be a a a
price discovery right on the open that
uh is unsustainable
and uh an overreaction and counter to my
thesis. And I'm going to let it show me
the top and fail and start to go down
and short it and cover it above the
high. And I'm going to let it run. And
I'm not going to exit the trade until
I don't think I would have exited the
trade kept the chart. I would have
covered it in a close. I mean, and I
don't mean to be
I I don't mean to be like it's so easy
to but that that would have that would
have been one of the trades in my
playbook, right?
Now, those trades are going to have a
low win rate, right? Mhm. Um and and and
of those trades, I certainly if it would
have broke a trend line, I would have
exited.
Uh or if it had gone parabolic to the
downside, I would have exited. Uh or if
it got above EWOP and held above VWOP, I
would have exited. Or if it held above a
significant consolidation area, I would
have exited. But none of those things
happened.
So it it and it doesn't surprise me
because of the news
because eventually people figured out
what you figured out
no matter what the headline number was,
right? And that's good that they had a
headline number that could confuse some
people. But if you actually like you did
read the balance sheet,
they they were you smoking mirrors. All
right. Um so all right. I thought that
was pretty good though for for the trade
management on four to seven. I think
that's an eight and a half.
And then
the last part of this though is it ended
up getting to that month to date VWAP
which has just been a really common
theme that I've been noticing. Core
today gets right to the monthto date
VWAP had an epic bounce. Tesla yesterday
to the monthto date VWAP. So there's a
very interesting pattern going on that
I'm observing there. Um so
moving on to the technology here. So we
used our trading view to anchor our
VWAPS. We used the year to date. We used
our earnings report uh uh year to excuse
me. We used trading view to anchor our
VWAPS from the year to date from the
earnings report and our prior low and
prior high area. Um, we've incorporated
the multi-day DWAPS, the week to date,
two-day, and the daily to help us find
our key levels and trend structure to
engage um, who's in control of the trend
on on the time frame. We we marked our
aftermarket high, pre-market low,
aftermarket high, and low, pre-market
high and low areas.
We monitored uh, we're looking for our
volume, our volume on the blowoff and
volume for confirmation through the
through our levels. And we made sure we
set our alerts at these key levels at
200 at at our um market levels. So four
your entry was what? Four was a opening
range break. Okay. And so when you're
trading live, what you want to be doing
during the trading day is setting alerts
for something like that. So this is like
low of the open, right? Right. So you
would you would have wanted to during
the trading during the open set an alert
if it gets below the low to alert me,
right? And that would have been a that
would have been a really good use of
tech. Does that make sense? You're
constantly going to be using and
resetting alerts throughout the day to
give yourself signals to enter ads
because we knew once if we did break
that make lower lows. Did you set an
alert for low of the day on the open? I
uh No. Okay. That would have been a good
thing. All right. All
right, you guys are new with technology,
so I'm going to punt to give you an
eight.
And um we're just we're leaving it off
with the trade review here. So we wrote
we followed the morning game plan that
we we're favoring the stuff at the 220
level. Our e execution aligned with the
levels and structure. you know, we're
looking for the potential fashion be
late from the we're looking for the
stuff, the reversion to the VWAP, the
breakdown from the VWAP to the
pre-market low. And that's where we
really took number four was that opening
range break. Um, and that that's that's
where the the trade the trend trade
started to hold uh started to really
take place. So, I just wrote this is
actually one of my one of my best trades
ever that I've taken, which was pretty
exciting. Um, we did a gap into
resistance. We we hit it with the
fashionably late into the pre to the low
of day and then we tackled the opening
range break on that break a low a day
and we traded it into the monthto- date
VWOP and really um got to get a lot of
juice out of this.
So what was really important was to just
make sure we have a clear plan with the
defined levels and risk parameters. This
makes our execution fluid and decisive.
And it was just important to know that
it was important to know that what type
of trades could potentially set up at
key levels so we could be ready to ready
to take these trades.
Okay. So, when you're doing a trade
review, I think one of the things that
people leave out
that disappoints me. It's like one of
the number one things people leave out
is what?
What do you think people just
continually leave out in their trade
reviews?
How can I get bigger? How can I get
better? What should I have done better
in this trade? And I thought you were
going to say that and I'm glad you're
saying that and that isn't the answer
that I'm looking for
profit. What do people people leave out?
How do you get better at something? Like
what what's like super important to get
better at anything you want to become
great at? Repetition. What do you need
to what do you need to recognize? Were
you missing? So, so maybe that noting
how much I risked. What do you need to
recognize?
Where you went wrong? So, we've we've
had we've had that answer, right? All of
you have have given me examples of
things you could have done wrong. Okay.
How do you get great at something?
And what needs to be in this trade
review?
So, one thing that we talked about was
it was a trade. It was a trend trade and
we didn't make that's how I could start
to make this better is starting to
realize the higher time frame view that
what type of how do you get good at
something how are you guys going to be
practice seven figure traders is it
going to be us sitting around talking
about the things that you do poorly the
things that you do really good yeah you
you people make this mistake all the
time you you've got to find out like
what you did really well you found a
great trade why was it a really great
trade like what did you do to really
find a great trade And there's a clear
answer to that. And what was it?
Looking at the you do something here
that's a great example. People write
books about stuff like this. Okay. It's
a what is it? What did you do really
well? What's the most important thing?
We had to set up
reading the report.
Okay. And and that that represents what?
Due diligence. What does that represent?
So when you have a trade, right,
preparation, when you have a trade,
your best trades are going to have
really big catalysts.
All right? They're either going to be
news catalysts or they're going to be
technical catalysts. Those are going to
be the best trades. Uh you've seen us
trade circle on the desk and the big
catalyst for that is not news, but what?
Overextension. It's an over it's a great
technical setup. In this case it's an
overextension.
You know before that it may there may
have been it's an overextension. It's an
unusual overextension if you just and
you can go measure that and go take your
Ballinger bands out. You can go you can
go put math behind that. It's a complete
overextension that that's a huge
catalyst to be able to trade something
like that. All right. In this case
you've got a terrific news catalyst. We
said it's a 9.5. Right. I think it was a
9.5. We said that's unusual.
The reason why this trade works and what
you guys did well is you found a stock
with an unusually negative news
catalyst.
That's why it worked.
And you want to go find more trades that
have big catalysts
that will allow you to make really good
money. This was a terrific example of a
negative news. That's what you did
really well. And so when you do your
your trade review, I want you to say
with our collaboration,
we found an unusually negative news
catalyst
and you want to do more of that because
that works for you guys. Yeah. You do
not become a seven figure trader harping
and carping and nitpicking about the
little things that we can all
we we are all human. We can all point
out our shortcomings.
All right? And and not to suggest you
shouldn't do that, but like that's not
how you make a lot of money.
You make a lot of money by understanding
that you did that really well. All
right? And so find more trades like
that. And so on your trade review, um
we're going to give you a 7.5 until you
point out the things you do well. But I
thought that was pretty good. Uh
unfortunately, we've got to give you a
zero on reading the tape because we
don't have that. Um, on your diligence,
a nine.
On stock selection, I thought this was
really good stock selection. Uh, this is
a nine out of 10 in stock selection
because of the negative news catalyst.
The one thing I just didn't love about
this stock selection was
it would have been better if what?
Would have been better if technically
it had been a better setup, too, right?
He did have a really good news catalyst,
but it was it was a little bit I don't
know how the technical system on the
daily. Does that make sense?
Um you you'll find better ones. Does
anyone want to add that up? What what do
we get? Who's going to add that up?
76.2.
The tape. We got two points on the tape.
This tape.
All right. Next time include the tape.
Obviously, you're showing the ability to
get uh above an 80 and you did a lot of
things really well. What did you guys
think? I thought it was awesome. I got a
lot of feedback. I learned a lot about
my trade and about myself through the
experience through this trade.
Uh dis you guys disappointed that that
you you didn't break 80. I'm very
disappointed. I I like to win. I had an
expectation, but it could be we did miss
the a key component of the playbook,
which is reading the tape. So, you get
what you deserve.
Well, it wouldn't be too hard on us. I
think we made a pretty good job here
since we
to be honest um nobody uses the tape
right now for trading. So we thought
this was not a key variable to our
success. So we left it out and that was
a mistake.
Next time we're going to do better. I
think that overall we did a great job.
We just forgot to include the tape which
is easily fixable. And we really what I
think that is maybe the most important
part is identified a really important
change in fundamentals that people
didn't really look into. Not everyone
goes to the extent of looking at the
actual report and then identifying that
it's a little misleading. That's where
the hedge funds and big institutions
come in. They see that and they go
through compliance offload. That's where
you make your money.