You've sold nine companies, three of
those to Birkshshire Hathaway.
>> I never built any of my early companies
with the mindset of selling them. The
strategy was how could we build
businesses that provide just amazing
value to our customers? I was 23, 24
years old when I started my first
business and I ended up getting my first
ever business partner and he was a
multi-billionaire.
>> How did you attach yourself [music] to a
multi-billionaire in your early 20s?
>> So, I'll tell you a fun story and this
is just absolutely crazy to me. The
common theme here from the beginning of
the podcast [music] has been all about.
>> You hear the term boring business, you
hear AI, you hear tech. [music] Listen,
the big opportunity isn't building a
boring business. The big opportunity is
to build a business. [music]
>> You mentioned that Jesus Christ was the
center of what kept your marriage and
your family together. For a lot of the
entrepreneurs out there that maybe don't
have [music] Christ as their backbone,
what would your advice be for them? I
can't imagine being an entrepreneur and
building a [music] business without
having God as the foundation of my life
because it is lonely.
>> Vic, if me and you were to die tomorrow
and you had [music] one more message to
leave with the younger generation, what
would that be?
>> What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh
and we have an incredible guest for you
all today. We're out in Dallas, Texas
with the business mogul, Vic Keller, one
of the king of exits. Man, how many
businesses have you built? First of all,
>> I founded 17 companies. So,
>> and how many of those have you sold?
>> Um, nine.
>> Nine. So, you sold nine companies.
>> Nine company. Yeah. 17 founded, nine
exits, and uh I've got a few more I'd
sell if you want to buy them.
>> Well, I mean, you want to raise a little
bit of fun?
>> We could raise a fund right now.
>> It's about time.
>> Yeah, it's about time. Let's do it.
Well, Vic, where I want to get us
started off today, man. First of all,
super happy to be here with you today. I
know that you flew in for this, man. So,
we're very happy to be here with you,
man.
>> You guys are amazing. This is my home
city, man. This is like the greatest
economy in the world, Dallas, Texas.
>> Yall Street.
>> It is.
>> Talk about that real quick. We're in
Dallas right now. Yep.
>> Right. New York was always the financial
capital of the world, but tides are
starting to shift a little bit. I
>> I'm just telling the the energy and the
entrepreneurial spirit in Dallas, Texas
is like no other city in America. I
mean, it is unbelievable. Um I mean I
think it's one of the fastest growing
cities in America. But um you know we
are literally sitting right here from we
are a mile away from where there is the
largest concentration in the United
States of billionaires um in family
offices that are just doing quiet things
behind the scenes. Um there's a
development here called Old Parkland
where there's just an amazing amazing
collection of entrepreneurs and wealth
builders that are building businesses
that you know um we all know the
businesses. We just don't know the money
and the people behind them and those are
the folks. So yeah, this is a this is a
great place for capital. It's a great
place for um economic growth. It's an
awesome place to raise a family. So I'm
a big fan of Dallas, Texas. I don't
spend as much time here as I used to,
but I don't think there's a better place
in America to build.
>> I love it. Well, where I want to get
started today is, you know, again,
you've sold nine companies, three of
those to Birkshshire Hathaway, before
the exit started to happen before, you
know, Birkshshire Hathway showed up and
started buying these companies. Take me
back to the exact moment that you
realized that the companies you were
building weren't just profitable, but
they were actually sellable.
>> You know, I don't I would tell you this.
I never built any of my early companies
with the mindset of selling them. As a
matter of fact, I don't even know that I
saw that as an option. Um I came from
you know parents that loved me well but
my parents very blueco collar and u you
know working every single day still
working every single day and I didn't
really know the concept of selling a
business but I had started studying and
deconstructing the success of amazing
entrepreneurs and business builders uh
at an early age. I mean I was just
really interested in how people were
creating wealth and what they were
building. But I didn't really think
about the exit strategy. I thought about
just how could I build something that
would provide cash flow and and give me
and ultimately my family a great quality
of life and I was laser focused on that.
And um the first collection of companies
that that were successfully acquired
that I was part of um I don't even think
I was sitting around thinking about
selling a business. Today when I build a
business um I try to architect the
business in a way that it's durable and
it's gonna attract a song a strong
suitor and it's going to last for a long
time. So, I'm much more focused on that
today. But when I had those early
transactions, um you know, I was just
going to work every single day. And uh
you know, I don't want to say that it
was dumb luck by any means cuz we really
were building great businesses that um
you know, ended up getting acquired,
which was fantastic, but that really
wasn't the game plan. That wasn't the
strategy. The strategy was how could we
build businesses that provide just
amazing value to our customers? um so we
could keep those customers and then
ultimately I really wanted to just
provide for my family. I had a young
family and uh came from from no
financial means and just the fact that
we were able to like have profit and
make distributions uh that was awesome.
You started flipping burgers at
McDonald's way back in the day, but then
you ended up working in HVAC with your
dad and I can't help but think that that
that scenario and that work experience
ended up shaping you to getting into
some of the industries that you got in
later on. Bring us back to that
experience and what were those things
that you learned early on that you think
even today's generation could learn
from?
>> Well, first of all, um you know, it's
funny. I was talking to my dad the other
day and I said, I think I want to go buy
some HVAC companies. And he's like, why?
and uh and he clearly has not been
keeping up with the private equity world
and the press around HVAC companies, but
they are very marketable companies today
and uh the home services industry is
just on fire. But uh to answer your
question, when I was 14 years old, I
rode my bike down to McDonald's and um
somehow or another convinced him I was
15 cuz that's how old you had to be. And
I worked there and I remember um
flipping those burgers and I also
remember like hydrating dehydrated
onions. Um, some very interesting things
happened at McDonald's. But I was there
and I was like, "This is an interesting
business. There were processes, there
were systems. Um, I wanted to figure out
how to own a McDonald's." Like, I was
like, "Man, could you own a McDonald's?"
And then someone told me that it was
going to take a few million dollars to
do that and kind of crush those dreams.
I was like, "Well, I'm probably not
going to be able to own a McDonald's
anytime soon."
So it it was formative because I wanted
to know who owned that, who was the
franchisee of that business, who
operated it, what were the systems and
processes that kept it running. I mean,
I just saw customers lined up. So I was
very intrigued by it. The other side of
that was, as you mentioned, um working
with my dad in the summers as a kid in
the HVAC business, right? We were
hanging air handlers, air conditioning
units in atticss and uh we were setting
big air air conditioners outside uh as
well and running air duct and thermostat
wire and all the things that you do in
the HVAC business. Getting up in the
middle of the night and going to a
restaurant that had a refrigerator that
went out and they were about to lose all
their food and had to go in and replace
the components. And I watched my dad do
that really hard work. And it's funny
because I think that it shaped me that I
really didn't want to do that work. I
was like, man, I want to own these
businesses. I don't think I want to get
up in the middle of the night. And I
love that my dad did that. And I loved I
had that experience. So, it's funny to
be full circle as an entrepreneur now
because I'm like, man, I want to own a
bunch of HVAC companies, right? Because
it's it's really a great business. Um,
but yeah, I think that I learned that
capitalism and entrepreneurialism and
building businesses could happen many
different ways. Um, and and I wanted to
be a part of it.
>> I'm a big believer in having a
competitive edge. you know, we've we've
built our business in the in the media
industry. And one thing you just
mentioned is that, you know, the HVAC
companies are very marketable to private
equity. And let's just say the three of
us are looking to build a business or
buy a business, but we have no
experience with HVAC. You know, I
previously worked within like door-to-d
dooror sales for a roofing remodeling
company. And if I look at it, if the
three of us were to buy a, you know,
remodeling company, I don't know about
the codes or how to work manage
subcontractors, you know, all the nine
yards that go into that. So for people
who are looking to buy a business today,
should they look to buy businesses who
within an industry that they have
experience in like for us within the
media industry or is it okay to, you
know, expand the parameters and go wide
and buy something they may not be as
familiar with?
>> Yeah. So, um, let me let me reframe that
a little bit. You said if the three of
you guys were going to go buy one of
these businesses, I'll tell you how to
make it a lot easier. If the four of us
were going to go buy one of these
businesses, it'd be a lot easier, right?
Because we would just have, you know,
more more is better in this scenario.
So, to answer your question, I don't
think that there's anything wrong with
going into an industry that is new to
you that you don't know. I mean, every
business I've ever been involved with
it, I wasn't an expert in that business.
I tried to create mastery in that
business over time, but I wasn't an
expert in the business. Um, so I think
that's okay to do that. However, um, I
think that if you are going to go into a
business like that, that you need to be
laser focused on that business for a
long season of time to create durability
in that business. Um, and and to make
sure that business is solid and strong.
Where I see most people fail is they're
like, I want to go get in self- storage.
I want to go own a car wash. I want to
go own multif family homes. I want to
they like all these different things.
And I'm like, man, how do you establish
mastery when you're doing that many
different things? So, I think to answer
your question, what you don't know is
okay as long as you can align yourself
with people that do know, which by the
way, they're readily available. And a
lot of people have expertise and
knowledge in an industry and a field,
but they don't want to be an owner. and
and uh there's there's a great
opportunity there. So,
I don't think again there's no problem
with going into a business you don't
know, but you want to be laser focused
on achieving mastery in that business.
>> Was there a business that you went into
or an industry that you wanted to get
into that ended up not working out?
>> Yes. Yeah. Um I would say I would say
for sure however
it wasn't because of the subject matter
expertise or the uniqueness of the
business. It was because of the lack of
time and energy and focus and relentless
uh just relentless focus on that
business that really kept it from being
as successful. Um any business that I've
been in that I've been successful at I
had to just go all in on. You don't have
to stay all in on them forever, right?
Because, you know, one of the things
that I I love to talk about is there's
this whole mindset around 10xing
yourself, right? Everybody's like, "10X
yourself. 10x yourself." And I've been
married for almost 30 years, and my wife
like is not interested in me 10xing
myself. She says one's enough, right?
And so, um, but as I build these
businesses, my focus has really not been
on just my intelligent and expertise in
the business, but it's really been about
how can everyone else be excellent at
the business? how can they be, you know,
great? So, I've just always focused on
finding those subject matter experts,
empowering them, uh, creating an
opportunity for them that quite candidly
they probably thought they could never
have, and really spend most of my time
on the people side of the business more
than actually on the business, but I got
the people that understood the expertise
of the business. I wanted to get your
perspective on partnerships because you
brought up saying, "Hey, instead of the
three of us trying to go buy a business
with the four of us, but then there's
also a little bit of maybe hesitancy
there as well because the more partners
that you have come in, the more that
your equity might dilute a little bit."
Was that ever a reason of concern for
you when you were building or acquiring
companies saying, "Hey, we get too many
people in here, not going to make as
much money necessarily." Or were you
always just thinking about the bigger
picture? The more money that it can make
with the right people, the more money
we're all going to make together. what
was your take on having, you know, too
many partners in a business, per se?
>> Yeah, so great question, really good
question. Um, when I was younger, my
concept around partnerships was
exclusivity, meaning I wanted to be the
partner. I wanted to be the owner. I
wanted it to be me. Um, as I've gotten
more experience in business and I really
understand the power of partnership,
it's more about inclusivity. And I found
out the more I could be inclusive, the
more people that could be involved,
people that are qualified, that are
capable, that are going to deliver great
value. Um, that has been immensely
important to me. I was a, you know, a
young man. I was 23, 24 years old when I
started my first business. And I ended
up, uh, getting my first ever business
partner and he was a multi-billionaire.
And I had no idea he was a
multi-billionaire. I don't know that
many people were talking about
multi-billionaires then. Um, but I I had
I was building a business and uh he
brought me on as his partner and I
remember thinking during that time uh
man, do I really want to have a partner?
Um, but I and and I was probably a
little bit naive and selfish to think I
really didn't want to give anything
away. Um, but by having that partner and
he was a very significant partner. Uh,
by having that partner, my success was
exponentially better than it ever would
have been on my own. And I was really
really grateful to have that partner. Um
I mean he he I I learned so much from
him and I just
gained opportunity I could never have
had. So I love the power of partnership.
Partnership is awesome. Um where
partnerships become challenging are when
people don't deliver value. Um
partnership should really be leverage,
right? Two of us can can lift more than
one of us can. And so I think that it's
more about are people going to add
value,
>> right? How did you attach yourself to a
multi-billionaire in your early 20s?
Yeah. Like, and I think a lot of young
people can benefit from this because I
mean, I'm, you know, that if you're
young and you can get around people that
have decades of experience, I mean, the
amount of time and knowledge that you
can collapse through that mentorship and
partnership with people that are, you
know, decades ahead of you and, you
know, their perspective business. What
advice would you give to people, you
know, how did you attach yourself to the
right people that young?
>> Yeah. So the collapsing of time
is we are in a a really a state of time
right now where you can collapse more
time than you ever could before and I
love what you guys do in advocating
mentorship and people having mentors and
learning from other people and really
what you're doing is awesome. I think
that if you take the power of mentorship
and you take the power of technology
that we have right now specifically with
a lot going on that's AI you can
collapse a lot of times. So it's a good
question. So my story is um I was 24
years old. I started my first business
and my customer was car dealerships. I
was trying to sell products to car
dealerships. And by the way, selling uh
products to the best salespeople in the
world sometimes is difficult, right?
>> What products were you selling? I was
selling all different kind of products,
but the core product that I was selling
at this time was a device that went on
the tires of the vehicle and it told you
if the tire was properly inflated. Um,
which is an interesting story in itself
because that product had a lot of lot of
challenges that we can talk about um
that it it worked out, but it was an
interesting start. But I was trying to
sell this product to car dealerships all
over Dallas, Texas, actually. And uh and
I could not get a meeting um and and get
anything closed. And finally I was like,
who owns all these car dealerships? And
I found out who owned all the car
dealerships, uh, which was this
gentleman that had, you know, he was
kind of the Sam Walton of of the car
dealerships. He built this biggest
collection of amazing car dealerships.
And he was in Kansas City, Missouri. And
um, I found a path to calling his
assistant one day and getting a meeting.
And the next thing you know, it was
easier to get in front of the guy that
owned all the businesses than the people
that were operating the businesses.
>> What did you do in that meeting?
>> And uh boy, what did I do in that
meeting? Um first of all, I had no idea
who I was meeting with. Uh I mean, I
knew I was meeting with a a a baron that
owned, you know, a bunch of
extraordinary businesses that I wanted
to have as customers. But um I went in
there with tremendous humility and um
explained to him how much value I
thought I could bring to his businesses
and that meeting ended ultimately in a
partnership. Um so I went there to try
to close a deal and uh it it really that
one meeting probably changed the course
of my entire life.
>> You had a business to where um you had a
conflict where the FA the FAA came in
and tried to shut you down. Yeah.
>> And in that moment and with that
setback, how did you handle and get over
something like that?
>> Yeah. So, I want to go back to that that
first business. Um, well, there they
were all connected businesses, but the
the tire monitoring system. Um, I had
found this product overseas. I brought
it to America and it was right when
there was a lot of failures happening
with tires and tire inflation. Um, good
news for you guys is it was right before
you were born uh that this was
happening. But cars didn't used to have
um uh the gauges inside that tell you
what the tire pressure is. So there was
a manual product I brought to the US and
I installed uh by hand. I personally
installed these little valve stems that
go on on the wheels and the tires on
1600 um tires. So that'd be 400 cars.
And I I it was an amazing product. I was
so excited about it. It was in Phoenix,
Arizona. It was the middle of August.
And the day after I installed the very
device that was going to keep tires
properly inflated, that customer called
me and said, "I have 1,600 flat tires."
So, every one of my products, a seal
inside of them melted and they failed
and I was in essence out of business.
Had no money. It was a big problem. So,
I got on a plane and went back to Asia
where the product came from. figured out
how to re-engineer the product, beg for
forgiveness with the customer, and
continued to sell that product for for
10 years. But, um, I think I learned
from that situation more than any other
situation that failure is going to
happen and and and it's how you handle
it. I was relentless. I had everything
to lose. I mean, everything to lose if
this business didn't work out. So, um, I
went and figured it out. Beg for
forgiveness. I was very humble. I didn't
so much beg for forgiveness from the
manufacturing company that made the
product in Asia. Um I think I might have
put them in like a headlock or
something. I was pretty frustrated, but
we worked together and made it happen.
So that was a huge failure point for me.
And the the FAA story that you asked
about um is funny. That's in a separate
business. So, I had an automotive
specialty chemical business where we
made um really highquality premium
products that are used to service
vehicles and they were used by
automotive technicians um across the
United States. And my warehouse manager
was in a hurry to close the month out
and instead of sending a box of highly
flammable uh automotive products via a
truck, he decided to put them on an
airplane. And uh one of those bottles
started leaking on the airplane and the
plane was going from Dallas to Phoenix.
Um it was actually a Southwest Airlines
flight. Um and it it it had to make a
stop because it had a bit of a an odor
and a and a fuel problem which was our
product um leaking out of a bottle. And
within 24 hours I had the FAA at my
front door. And um those guys carry guns
and uh they were they were there to talk
to me about what happened. I had no
knowledge of what happened. Um they
didn't want to hear about that. Um but
the guy that worked in the warehouse, I
think um you know, he was he was scared
and he he tendered his resignation. He
said, you know, I'm sorry I did that. It
was a mistake. And I explained to him
that there was no way he was going to
quit uh or leave because we were
spending a lot of money on his education
to never do that again. And so didn't
terminate him. and uh he still works for
that company today.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. So, you know, I think not giving
up on people is a big part of of success
in business. Um as an owner, as a
founder, when you have people that make
knucklehead decisions and don't do
things right, it's so easy to say, you
know what, I'm just going to get rid of
them. But man, if you can stick with
someone uh when they misstep, the level
of loyalty that you have with them and
they have with you is uh it's
exceptional. I love that is is the fact
of like mistakes are bound to happen in
any industry that you decide to get
into. But you're you're going into
different verticals of you know the
automotive industry and how are you
deciding like I'm sure like you're not a
you know an expert in every single
vertical that you're going into. So are
you uh buying into these businesses and
buying the talent within them or are you
saying hey you're you're an expert
within this industry we should partner
on this and create a business together.
What does that look like? Yeah, I think
there's two different models there. Um,
there's two different models. I am I
love to build teams. I love to build
teams. I love to uh hire people. I love
to create professional environments
where people can sharpen each other. Um,
I just that's that's my passion is
really identifying talent and putting
talent in businesses. I'm not scared to
go into an industry or a business that I
don't know. And I'm not scared to bring
people into an industry or a business
that don't know that business like if if
they're great. Um so I don't I don't
think that I have a track record of
going into businesses um with experts.
Um I go into businesses that are you
know I one of the greatest examples I
can use is Mr. Buffett talks about, you
know, if you get involved in a business
that you don't understand or it's
complex or there's a lot of complicated
words that people use to describe it,
uh, then it's probably not a place that
you want to be. And so most of the
businesses that I go into, all the
businesses I go into, they're pretty
common sense. Um, people really try to
make business complex. Um, and and maybe
that's a strategy to create a mode
around it. But if you really distill
down most businesses, and of course
there's some, you know, I'm not trying
to get rockets to to, you know, Mars.
I'll let Elon handle that. But, you
know, most other businesses are very
approachable. And it does come down to
having great people. Um, and I'm not
saying you don't need subject matter
experts at all, but I I don't really go
into businesses where you can't get
extraordinary people to do great things
in a business that may even be new to
them.
>> What was your process for identifying
talent in a I guess relatively boring
industry like the automotive industry,
right? Because in software, it's like,
okay, yeah, the guy knows how to code
better than anybody else. Bring him on.
How did you identify talent for all
these different teams that you were
building?
>> Yeah. So um the automotive industry as
an example uh is is you could say it's a
boring industry. It's a very wealthy
industry, right? There is a lot of money
to be made in the automotive industry
and it's a it's a vibrant industry. Um I
the first company I founded when I was
24 years old um we sold a product but my
focus was really never on the product.
My focus was on how to professionally
develop internally my own team and
externally the customers we're serving.
And that may sound a little bit strange
uh in the sense of I was really focused
on if we could help people grow um that
we were going to be successful at
retaining customers and we were going to
be successful at retaining retaining
employees. And I do the same thing
today. I mean, I will go into a company,
I just made an acquisition a couple
years ago, and the first thing I did
walking into that company was install a
whole professional development system
and process for the business. So, the
first thing I look for in people is are
they curious? Do they want to be
intellectual? Do they want to learn? Um,
if they do, man, that's that's the
funnest thing in the world. But I follow
the three C's of hiring people.
Character, competency, and chemistry.
Right? We want people that have
character, not people that act like
characters. We want people that are
competent. They're not just intelligent,
but they have the desire to be curious
intellects and to learn. I love those
people. Um, and then the last one is
chemistry. And chemistry is, you know,
how can we all work together? Um, can we
get along? I don't like hiring people
that enter into the equation that are
smarter than everyone else and we're
like, "Oh, don't worry about Joe. He's
just that way. That's how he is." Like,
no matter how smart or how great an
individual is, if they're not going to
contribute to the chemistry, um, even if
they're a unicorn, we don't need them.
We don't need them because it's not
going to work because there's no law of
compounding there. So, um, by the way, I
did not invent character, competency,
and chemistry. Chick-fil-A hires for
character competency and industry and
chemistry.
>> That's where we started right there.
>> It is. So Chick-fil-A is unbelievable.
They do $9 million a year per location
and their second best competitor does
somewhere around 2 million a year.
Right? From the time you order at
Chick-fil-A to the time that you get
their food, your food, it's about 137
seconds that pass between that time.
Right? And you'd say, "What's
different?" I mean, the chicken sandwich
is awesome. The waffle fries are great,
but what is different? The differences
that they hire for character,
competency, and chemistry. And I'll tell
you a fun story, and this is just
absolutely crazy to me. I hired a
gentleman in one of my companies uh a
little over a year ago, and his name is
Brad, and he is was an elite uh soldier
in Delta Force, the most elite military
organization um you know, I I would say
in the world. They just went on a pretty
big mission down in Venezuela. Got a lot
of press, but Brad was an elite guy
there. Did an amazing job. And I was so
excited to learn from Brad how Delta
Force identifies the best people to work
in what they call that unit. What does
that look like? And so we sit down one
day and I'm like, Brad, tell me
everything. Like, how do y'all hire
these people? And I'm taking notes. I'm
ready to implement this in my business.
He says, "Man, we hire people that have
character, people that are smart, and
people that can get along with each
other." And I'm like, "Wait a minute.
Delta Force and Chick-fil-A hire for the
exact same thing. Character, competency,
and chemistry." And so, um, I had the
privilege of learning about how
Chick-fil-A hires many, many years ago.
And so, I've kind of adopted that. It's
a little bit more extensive than just
that. Um, but man, if someone can pass
those three attributes, you're headed in
the right direction.
>> You've been in a numerous amount of
industries over your career.
>> And I feel like today some of the trends
that everybody like like I feel like our
generation gets shiny object syndrome
like everyone starts talking about like
it used to be crypto and NFTTS and then
>> if you know today I feel like boring
businesses is a big thing that everyone
likes to throw around and AI. What do
you see though after being in all these
different industries as the next like
two or three like real big opportunities
that people need to be paying attention
to?
>> So,
first of all, this is the greatest time
in history to be an entrepreneur and to
build businesses. I mean, we are in like
this is I don't know if it's the golden
years, golden decade. I don't know how
long it's going to last, but we are in
an unbelievably special time right now.
Um, so if someone's thinking about
starting a business or they want to, you
know, get a mentor, uh, that's an
entrepreneur and they want to learn what
it means to start a business, this and I
love the work you guys are doing in that
because this is the time like people
always say, "Man, I missed the
opportunity. I fun story. [snorts]
I remember my my son who's 20 29 years
old now, my oldest son, he told me 10,
15 years ago, I don't remember, he sent
me a text message one day and he said,
"Dad, you should buy Bitcoin." And I
said, 'What is Bitcoin?' He said, 'It's
cryptocurrency.' I said, 'What is
cryptocurrency?' And by the time we were
done the conversation, I said, 'You need
to quit. You know, you need to focus on
school and and don't do that. Um, I
should have bought Bitcoin. I have since
then, but I missed an opportunity. And
he sends me he texts me the screenshot
of that conversation and the calculation
of what the Bitcoin would be worth. So,
I missed that time. I'm not missing this
time, and no one else should miss this
time. This is an amazing, amazing time
to build a business. To answer your
question, if if I'm building a business
today, you you hear the term boring
business, you hear AI, you hear tech.
Listen,
AI is amazing, but AI is not going to
replace people. AI is leverage. It is
extraordinary leverage. It compresses
time and it also uh creates just
opportunity for people that don't have
funding and capital that they've never
had before. So having tools like AI is
great, but the big opportunity isn't
building a boring business. Like the big
opportunity is to build a durable
business. A durable business that's
going to last. And if you really try to
distill down the greatest organizations
in the world, um look at all the
companies that Bergkshire Hathaway owns.
And if you really say what's unique
about those businesses, they're durable
businesses. They're businesses that have
been built that can stand the test of
time. and if there's headwinds or
economic compression or challenges that
happen, they're still going to live. So,
I would say learning how to build a
durable business is really important and
if that happens to be a boring business,
I I have a follow-up to that because
that durable part, how big of that does
it have to do with cash? Because I look
at like Apple and their cash reserve is
just enormous. And so I feel like like
how does that sort of play in a role in
those companies that
>> Birkshshire Hath?
>> Yeah, I mean ca cash is I mean cash is
king, right? People have hats that say
that. Uh cash is really really
important. But a durable business is a
business where no matter what's going on
in the marketplace, your customers
cannot stand to not have your products.
>> Recession proof.
>> That's recession proof. Right. And and
and and Mr. Buffett has a great saying.
I think it's, you know, building a
recessionp proof business is really
good, but it's better if you can build a
depressionproof business, right?
Something that really has staying power.
So cash is important. Um, I kind of look
at seven different attributes of
building a a durable business and cash
is one of the attributes. Um, people are
number one. Um, and building a product
and a value proposition that is just
relentlessly ex, you know, excellence
for your customer, um, is is just number
one. So you can do some businesses that
are commodity businesses where you
really don't know how to differentiate
yourself in the market. Um I would say
it's those are the businesses where it's
tougher to be durable. But the
businesses where you can differentiate
yourself in the market um that's that's
the core attribute of durability.
>> You've started 17 companies, exited
nine, and the common theme here from the
beginning of the podcast has been all
about durability.
what exactly what are the principles
that someone can put into their business
that's going to make that business
marketable to for acquisition and just
what are the principles for building a
durable business?
>> Yeah. So, um I love the question.
I think the first principle for building
a durable business is this and let me
give you this analogy. I'm a pilot um
and and I think one of the coolest
things that I've ever done is is uh
learn how to fly an airplane. So, if
anybody has a passion and interest to
learn how to fly fly an airplane, it's
it's it's worth the time, energy, and
investment. But one of the things that
you learn as a pilot is that when you're
flying that airplane and you get into
bad weather, um your mind and your body
play tricks on you. And as what I mean
is if you lose perspective of the
horizon, you may not know where you're
going, but if you have the right systems
and processes in place, which in an
aircraft are gauges, right? you trust
the systems and processes that are in
place in the gauges. You don't trust
what your body or your mind is telling
you uh that you maybe don't have the
situational awareness that you think you
have. So, in building a durable
business, I think the first thing that
you have to do is implement and create
systems and processes certainly that you
can tweak, but they drive the business.
They're consistent in the business and
your employees, the people that are
joined and building with you, they very
much understand um what success looks
like, not based on emotion, right? So,
is it something that's systematic? Is it
going to outlive the founder?
Deleveraging the founder is most
important if you want to build
enterprise value and it's most important
if you want to build a durable business.
So, that would be one element of it. Um,
and I would say that that having a great
feedback loop, uh, in most businesses,
it sounds so simple to say something
like that, but when I think about
durability, a feedback loop is so
important to really understand how the
market's responding and reacting to the
c to your product, uh, but also how your
employees uh are responding and reacting
to what you're doing. So, um,
I think a lot listen, adrenaline is not
scalable.
Um passion and emotion are not scalable.
Uh if you want to scale a business and
you want to build a durable business,
you have to think about building a
strong foundation and all the components
of it.
>> So people always say that if you lead
your company and it doesn't grow without
you, you don't have a business, you have
a job.
>> Yeah.
>> So as a business owner, you're putting
the systems in place. How can you
actually test to see if this business
can operate and sustain without me
actively in it?
Well, I think that the most important
thing in any business, any business are
the people. There's nothing more
important than the people. So, testing
the systems and the processes and the
the different attributes of the business
is really not a test of those elements.
It's a test of the people. And so if you
the best way for a founder um or a CEO
or any leader to know even if you're a
departmental manager to know if your
business has sustainability and
durability without you being involved is
really a direct reflection of the
talent. So it's it's all about the
people. I mean I this you know this u
amazing billionaire that I mentioned
that I had an opportunity to partner
with when I was a young man. He told me
he one day he told me what the three
most important things were in business.
He said he wanted to tell me and he said
it's people, people and people and I was
like okay so it's people and now I
understand it to be people people and
people because you can't forget it right
and so if you're trying to build a
business that has durability to it that
you can step away from at the end of the
day what you're going to trust more than
anything are the people that are in
place. So we build that durable company.
What I want to ask you about is how to
scale beyond where most businesses get
stuck. And in particular when we talk
about boring businesses, you see often
times when they grow out to that
million-doll company, they get stuck in
that like what is it 2 to 5, 3 to five
range?
>> Have a hard time breaking that 5 to 10.
>> What is that bottleneck? most common
bottleneck in that $3 to5 million range
that you see most common across all of
these different businesses that if you
were to go in there and consult for that
company it'd be the first thing that
you're hashing out with them to help
them scale to that eight potentially
multi-ight even nine figure business. So
um two things one is in today's
marketplace there is a huge advantage
for any business that knows how to act
and be professional and I I like to say
that we should all think big but acting
bigger is
even better than thinking big acting
bigger. So when when you look at a
business and you look at the
professionalization of the business, is
it built to scale in the sense is it
professionalized and that could be
systems, processes, whatever it may be,
but it comes back to the people, right?
If you want to own the marketplace, if
you want to dominate, if you want to
have an irresistible offer, I just
professionalization. And it sounds might
sound very very simple but I can tell
you no matter how small or how big of a
business that I've been in and you guys
are doing a great job as you're building
out your business in doing this but
professionalization is key. So, I think
the first thing is is um is
understanding how to professionalize the
business and what goes along with that
and I'm going to come back to people is
have you built a business that's not
just going to attract the customer you
want to serve, but is it going to
attract the best talent that's available
in the marketplace? If you're an
AIdriven business, if you're a tech
business, I don't care what you're
doing, any business, how do you get the
best talent? And if you can get the best
talent and the smartest, most passionate
people, your business is going to scale.
But you have to get people that
truly want to drive the business. And a
big part of that, James, is that people
leaders in business um sometimes lose
sight of casting the vision of what the
opportunity is. and and uh again any
I've I've had the privilege of having
some amazing business partners in my
life and if I look at the ones that
created massive you know tens of
billions of dollars in wealth and I look
at the ones that have just struggled and
grinded through it all comes back to
people and it comes back to how big can
you think and and uh you know I I have a
list of these lessons I've learned from
extraordinary people I've had the
privilege to work around and with And
you know at the top of that list is just
that you can't think big enough and uh
you need to always challenge your
thinking. So most of those companies
that hit that $2 to5 million mark it's
because their founder or leadership uh
leveraged
>> right
>> and they can't step away from the
business.
>> I wanted to shift gears just a little
bit.
>> Okay.
>> You've been married for 30 years.
>> I have almost 30 coming up
>> coming up on 30 years. And you mentioned
that I think both your parents were
married three separate times.
>> Yeah. Yeah. My my parents are uh they
they established mastery. Um my parents
are amazing, by the way. I love them. Uh
they're they're they're extraordinary.
But yes, they uh they they each got
married three separate times.
>> But you also have two sons that you're
very close with.
>> Yeah, my sons are my best friends in the
world.
>> We see, you know, not necessarily just
people that we meet, but there's a lot
of entrepreneurs, they become incredibly
successful, you know, they build
tremendous companies, but that family
component kind of goes out the door for
them. It didn't seem like that really
happened with you. How did you integrate
your family life with being, you know, a
loving dad, having a great relationship
with your sons as well as, you know,
having a marriage of nearly 30 years,
but then also having so much success in
the business world. What was the secret
to that foundation?
>> Um, well, there was no secret to the
foundation. The foundation was Jesus
Christ. Um the sound the foundation was,
you know, um I get choked up talking
about it, but the foundation was just
building our family around
God and uh faith and and you know, that
was really for us and to this day that
that is it. And uh I'll tell you um I
married um an amazing lady that that
loves the Lord and knew how to really uh
embody that within our family and that
was huge. So, um, that was a big big
part of it. Um, and you know, I've got a
funny story. I I I tell it publicly, so
my wife wouldn't mind me saying it, but
we were dating in college and somehow
she got pregnant. And uh, those aren't
the kind of relationships that usually
um, you know, last for for decades. Um,
but in our case, it did because we we
grounded our marriage and and really,
you know, everything about us and and
our faith. And so, um, you know, God has
been just so good to us. Uh, so so good
to us. And that that has been the core
of it. Um I would tell you that my
family um has I I as I've been building
companies, I love to work. Like I am so
passionate about working. Like I I'm so
irritated that there's 24 hours in a
day. I mean because I just want to work
like more hours, right? I love building.
I love creating. I love innovating. But
is what I love more than anything is
helping other people do that, right?
Because I can't believe that I've had
the privilege and the opportunity to
build businesses. So, I just I get so
fired up about helping other people do
it. But that being said, I think my
family has always seen my passion and
love for business and for building and
creating and um they've been highly
supportive of it. But, you know, I tell
people all the time, I my kids both
played very competitive sports um all
the way through high school, one of them
through college, and I never missed a
game. I never missed an event. Um, I did
miss a few track meets because those
were really boring. Um, and so, uh, but
I was there. I was there. I was present.
And I was very intentional about when I
was there and present. But, you know, I
spent most of my career, uh, early on
working in an industry where, you know,
I was building businesses and fighting
and scrapping every day. And kind of the
stripes of that industry that I was
involved with, the way you really gain
credibility um, and people take you
seriously is by your work ethic. Uh, so
it was kind of hard to sneak away
sometimes and I would be the dad on the
sideline on my cell phone working a deal
watching my son hopefully score a
touchdown. And so um you know I I just
God for number one for two an amazing
wife and uh you know my I I'll tell you
this as well. My sons are uh they are
freethinking you know grown men. They
have their own opinions. They have their
own life. they do their own thing and
and with that um you know they don't
think exactly like I do but I think
we've always really respected that we're
different and we have different paths
and different courses and so I I think
your relationship with your kids and
with your wife is no different than
maybe a customer relationship you've got
to work really hard for it right you've
got to work hard and I I I meet a lot of
people that say hey well my kids need to
respect me because they're my kids and
uh and I don't I don't think that's a
good strategy. I think that you have to
earn that respect forever and you know
that's just how it works for us.
>> You mentioned that Jesus Christ was the
center of what kept your marriage and
your family together.
>> Yeah.
>> And a lot of the entrepreneurs that we
interview on Hard Knocks, you know, a
lot of them believe in something bigger
than themselves and and Jesus Christ
being a centerpoint of that. You know,
James just did an interview with James
Winston, the quarterback. Yeah. And
James said, u you know, how did you make
your first million? and his first words
out of his mouth were, "God made me a
millionaire."
>> So for a lot of the entrepreneurs out
there that maybe don't have Christ as
their backbone, as that
>> thing that's bigger than them,
>> what would your advice be for them?
Because entrepreneurship can be hard. It
can be lonely. And for me, even just
building a business, I've realized how
big a role Jesus Christ has played in my
life in keeping me centered on that
vision and what we're building. So, I'd
love to hear your advice to
entrepreneurs that may not have that
center point.
>> You know, I am um I really appreciate
the question. So, I I'm I'm a long way
away from being the smartest guy in the
room most of the time. Uh by design, I
like to hire smart people. um you know
there's just a lot of things in my life
that that um
I am not good at but the strength that I
get from having Christ and I'm I make
some really dumb decisions right I mean
I've made some dumb decisions done some
dumb dumb things but it is so I can't
imagine being an entrepreneur and
building a business without having God
as the foundation of my life because it
is lonely um building businesses and
taking risk are lonely It's scary. Um
there's a lot of fear that's involved.
But if you can come back to that
foundation of having God in your life,
it's just absolutely masterful. So
listen, um you know, I I um
I I would say if you are doing anything,
if you live on this earth, if you live
in this world and Christ is not at the
center of your life, I would say go
visit a church. Go visit a church. go to
a church on a Sunday. Um there's some
churches you probably shouldn't go to.
There's some you should go to, but just
go to a church. Go to a church. And um
you know, we we need community. God
designed us to have community. And the
reason that there is so much popularity
and so much growth right now in
everything that's happening um online
right in digital environments. The
reason there's so many masterminds, the
reason there's so many um different
programs and offers and we could talk
about it is I think people really long
for um community as much or more than
knowledge. People want community. The
best community you're ever going to get
in your life is one that's Christc
centered. So, I would say go visit a
church. Um, there are some amazing
amazing authors that have written great
books um that that are worth reading.
Um, man, if you're watching this and
you're like, you know, Vic, I don't know
where to start. Shoot me a DM. Shoot me
a DM. I don't have an offer to sell you
on, but I would love to tell you about
Jesus and I will make time to do it. And
uh you know, one of my closest friends
in the world is the pastor of my church.
His name's Matt Chandler. And you know,
go follow Matt and and just listen to
what Matt has to say. Go read Matt's
books. Um and there's so many other
amazing pastors in our country that
they've given their whole life. They've
given their whole life and every ounce
of their life to spread the gospel of
Christ. And uh I don't know if I'm
answering your question, man, but but
but I just I could not imagine living
this life without God.
>> Absolutely. I love that. And I wanted to
kind of go back to the business real
quick, right?
>> Yeah, let's do it.
>> I want to know that f what that first
conversation was like, you know, that
first process of selling that first
business, right? Because again, that's
>> Yeah.
>> Can you take us back to when you first,
you know, the process of getting contact
for people wanting to buy your company
to eventually sell, what you did with
that money? Take us back to, you know,
selling that first company.
>> Sure. So, the first company I sold was a
media publication magazine. And so, when
I started my first company at 24 years
old, um I was trying to find a place to
a way to tell my customers about what we
were doing. And I couldn't find um
anywhere to advertise that I could
afford. Um I would look at all these
industry trade publications that were
B2B industry trades [snorts] and I
couldn't I just couldn't come up with
anything. So ultimately I ended up
meeting a guy that told me what it cost
to print a magazine. So I created an
industry trade magazine that um I may
have taken almost all the ad space in
the entire magazine to advertise our
products and services. Um it was easy to
get people to write articles for them.
And I did that for several years and
then the industry kind of started
figuring out that I own the magazine.
And so um I had to sell it and uh and
and I did well. It was my first ever
deal. It was a pretty simple deal. Um,
but sold that business. Nothing
glamorous there. Uh, it was a great exit
and and a great return on investment,
but that was my first one. I think
you're probably asking about the the the
bigger the bigger ones and the bigger
opportunities. Um, I go back to all I
did every day and remember I had a
business partner early on um, who was a
very very successful multi-billionaire
and and he uh took a huge bet on me,
like a huge bet. And you know, all I
focused on every day was building a
great business. And I remember telling
PE, I had someone ask me, I think in
2013,
12 or 13, they said, you know, do you
want to would you ever sell your
company? And my my response back to them
was, and I was thinking, heck no, I
wouldn't sell this company. Like, I
mean, I'm making more money than I ever
thought I'd make in my whole life. Like,
I was getting paid like an NFL
quarterback. I mean, I'm like, this is
the best deal ever. And uh I remember
making the comment one day that, you
know, I I guess if Warren Buffett ever
called, I might. And um and that is not
how that deal happened, by the way. I
wish I could tell you that I was sitting
in my office and and and that call came
in. But um through a unique series of
events, um my business was part of a you
know, first business was part of an
awesome acquisition with Berkshire
Hathaway and uh you know, that was
really fantastic. Um, I would say that
the best thing you can do to build a
business and position it so it could get
bought and and and uh not just bought,
but it's attractive to the most
sophisticated, highest paid uh players
that are in the market, which by the
way, there are so many people, there are
trillions of dollars right now in
America sitting around waiting for
someone to sell them a company. I mean,
everybody wants to buy a company right
now. There's tons of capital available,
but if you build that business with the
fundamentals of it being durable and
you're able to delever yourself, your
multiple is going to be twice as much.
So, you know, for me, uh, I vividly
remember when the wire came through into
the account. Um, and you'd say, well,
then what happened? Um, I I may have
gone and bought a nice sports car. Uh, I
mean there there may I I I actually
vividly remember buying a blue McLaren,
but um you [laughter] know I I I
may I may have I may have done some fun
things. But I I'll tell you what's
interesting is
if you build a great business,
it's because you have great people. And
if you build a great business and you
exit that great business, that means you
also exit those people. And I'm not
saying there's a problem with that,
right? I'm I'm in that business. I own a
private equity firm as well and and and
love that business. But um
the money doesn't always make up for the
distance of the relationships that
you've built that built the enterprise.
And so, uh, everyone that has these
glamorous thoughts about building a
business and selling it, by the way, you
should always build a business that it's
durable and it can be sold, but it
doesn't always mean that it's the right
thing to do.
>> When you say deleveraging the founder,
do you does that mean like if there's
any sort of affiliation that the
founder, the head of the company has to
that company like they need to kind like
what what do you mean by deleveraging
the founder of that company?
>> Well, there's two two elements of that.
One is the business should not be
dependent upon the founder. If you're if
you're
>> So you're saying I can't be the
>> Exactly. Exactly. [laughter] James, what
I'm saying what I'm saying is Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Jack and Josh, we got to we
got to like you know, you guys got a
team. But yeah, no, long term the
success of your business doesn't need to
be about you guys. Where you are right
now in your business building stage and
what you guys are doing and being
several years in, it's all about you.
You're the spirit. You're the speed.
You're the pulse. You're the passion.
You're the strategist, you're the
executor,
>> but you're saying that we need to be
building up everything behind the
scenes.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. You want to
delever it so the business isn't
dependent upon you. And um you know
that's that's difficult to do, but you
can do it. And by the way, if you're
deleveraging the business from the
founder, from the leader, from the CEO,
from the owner, that means you're
building the business to scale. that
means that you're you're multiplying the
business in great ways far beyond than
what just one person can do. And so
that's just the right thing to do in any
business, right? Um in my opinion. So I
don't know if that answers your
question, but yeah, but but definitely I
would tell you in today's there's a big
problem today where
private equity is buying businesses that
are very very founder centric. I've done
this guys. I've bought a business that
was very very founder centric. The
founder did not delever himself from the
business. I bought the business and I
will tell you it was not successful
because that business was not
deleveraged from that founder. And so um
you can buy businesses at a discount.
You can buy businesses at a discount
that are founder centric. Um it is not
worth the discount. you were way better
off to pay the premium for a business
that is able to be sustainable without
that founder.
>> When you're exiting a company or looking
to exit a company, I mean, you're
working with people who know their
numbers, who've done this a hundred
times, and there are some of the best
negotiators in the world. You can't take
every offer that's across the table. Can
you tell us a story about a time where
maybe you had to walk away from a deal?
>> Where I had to walk away from a deal
that I was, was I on the buy side or
sell side? uh sales side.
>> I was on the like I was selling.
>> You were selling.
>> Um
>> somebody maybe tried to like lowball
you.
>> Oh yeah. Um you shouldn't try to lowball
me. Um and so yeah, I mean I'm an
operator. I build I I build businesses.
That's what I love to do. And so um a
lot of people that are in the business
of buying and selling companies, they're
financial engineers, right? Which
there's no problem with. I mean, there's
many crazily successful billionaires
that um are not operators. They're just
good financial engineers. I've got a
great friend that's one of the biggest
hedge fund guys in our country. He's
extraordinary. Um and he's not an
operator. He's a financial engineer. So,
um I'm an operator. So, I'm not scared
to keep a business if the valuation of
what I can trade it for is not
appropriate because I'm okay to keep
operating that business and to put the
team in place that's going to operate
the business. So, I've definitely had to
walk away from deals where, you know,
people have come in and said, "Hey, I'll
give you." This happened recently,
actually. Um, someone came in and tried
to buy a business and they offered us
about 70% of what it was worth. And, um,
you know, I just, it was easy to say no.
It was easy to say no. It's it's a lot
easier to take a business um
from good to great uh if if you know the
business and you really really know the
business. And usually people that are
selling businesses in a down market um
it's because they don't have confidence
in the business. Right.
>> Vic, we like to end these podcasts off
with two questions. I'll start and then
Jack will end it off for us. But Vic, in
one sentence, if me and you were to die
tomorrow and you had one more message to
leave with the younger generation, what
would that be?
>> Be ferocious about gaining knowledge. We
are living in the coolest time ever in
the history of the world to gain
knowledge. Um, you've got extraordinary
podcasts and the work that you guys are
doing. YouTube's got so much education.
If you don't like to read, you've got
audio books. Um there's great great
business leaders um and builders that
are in the marketplace. Um you know I
would say that that absolutely number
one is be ferocious and be contagious
about gaining knowledge. Knowledge is
power and inspiration is awesome and our
I think we have a a lot of people gain
inspiration but if you want
transformation that's going to be
knowledge and inspiration. You can't
have one or the other. You got to have
them both. So, I would just say um and
I'm I'm sorry I can't give you just one
answer, but be ferocious about
knowledge. Be ferocious about learning.
Learn everything. I mean, my goodness,
if you're living in this world right now
and you're not learning about AI and
you're like, "Oh, that's a fat. It's
going to go." Well, let me just tell
you, it's going to go just like Bitcoin
went and it didn't go. It just went up,
right?
>> You forgot one thing, though. And buy
car washes.
>> And buy car washes, baby. Yeah. I love
simple business.
>> Are we Are we going to buy some
together?
>> We should. I mean, I'm I'm building.
We're ready to go. We're ready to give
you some money.
>> I'm fully vertically integrated, baby.
We own the factory. We own the Of
course. I love partners. If you want to
build a car wash in America, you should
call me. We have the We own the entire
supply chain.
>> So, so, so here here's here's what we're
going to do. We're saying this on the
podcast. We're ready to go. We're going
to give you car wash.
>> Let's go. Let's go. Done. Done. I'm
serious. Shake the head. I'm serious.
You [laughter] guys listen, I'll tell
you a quick quick car wash story. I
>> I love the car wash business. It's
simple. Who doesn't understand a car
wash, right? It looks like an ATM
machine that just spits out money. And
guess what? It is. That's what it is,
right? And so I wanted to get in the car
wash business and I started building car
washes and buying equipment from people.
And it was just fragmented, man. It was
like it was like, you know, having to
take all your ingredients to the to the
to the restaurant and try to find
everybody to cook it and ser it was just
a mess. So I went and bought an amazing
car wash equipment manufacturer, right?
I mean, we bring in raw 304 gauge
stainless steel and in seven days, we
put out a robotic car wash.
>> I love that vertical, man. In 105,000
square foot industrial robotic
manufacturing facility in North
Carolina. It's awesome. But that wasn't
enough because in a car wash, you've
also got chemistry, right? That soap,
it's important that it works. I launched
a chemistry company and then you've got
to keep the thing up and running. So, we
launched a national service and parts
company to keep them running. But my
point is, I kept trying to build these
car washes and I'd have to go here and
here and here and I was like, can we
just make it easy? So, I'm not trying to
pitch my car wash business. It's the one
business that kind of just sells itself,
but it's an amazing business. We're
building hundreds of them right now. Uh,
I could go on forever about car washes,
but yeah, I'm happy.
>> Yes, sir. So, Vic, how old are you now?
>> I'm 51.
>> 51. And if tomorrow it was all said and
done, how would you want to be
remembered? Oh, I would want to be
remembered as
an authentic
uh person that loved people. I would
just I think I would just at the end of
the day, I don't think there's anything
more powerful in this world than love.
And I get wrapped up in some pretty big
business stuff. So, um but I I would
just want to be remembered as someone
that loved people and most importantly
loved God.
>> Amen. We love that, man. Guys, that's a
wrap on today's episode with the
legendary Vic Keller. We're going to put
the links down to his social media
platforms so that way you guys can tap
in with Vic and follow along with all of
his content and his journey. And be sure
to like and subscribe for amazing
content we've got coming every week,
guys, cuz we are bringing you guys the
biggest business owners, the most
incredible guests to the Hardnox
podcast. And do yourself an even bigger
favor. We are giving you access to our
multi-millionaire and billionaire
network inside the school of mentors. If
you go down and click the link in the
description of this video, you can get
access to the number one most powerful
entrepreneur community and network in
the world where you can hop on live
calls with the eight, nine, and even 10
figureure entrepreneurs we interview at
the School of Hard Knocks. So, we can't
wait to see you on the inside. With that
being said, we'll see you in the next
episode.
