How much money did you pay in taxes last
year? I paid $0 in federal taxes. And
how is that possible? It's possible
because I take a lot of income off of my
tax returns. How many times have you
read the tax code? I read the tax code
probably every single day. What's the
number one tax loophole that you found?
When you first read it, you couldn't
believe that it was legal. The loophole
for sure. If you are in an LLC,
transitioning from an LLC to an escorp
is probably going to be the first thing
that saves you money as an entrepreneur.
Now you got me all in my tax strategy
stuff. James, you you know you know they
don't they don't teach that in school,
right? Oh, 100%. When you start making
more money as a business owner, how do
you know when it's time to maybe I need
to get way savvier about my taxes? You
will feel the burn. Real estate is an
investment and it's a business. And if
you can offset your W2 taxes with that
loophole that was created, then man, we
can turn around and get you some of that
hard-earned money back and help you
reinvest more money faster and get you
to retirement faster. This has been a
master class. Wow. This has been a
master class so far.
What's going on everybody and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we are out in Orange
County with the legend 8 figureure
entrepreneur, your favorite
entrepreneurs, tax man, Carlton Dennis,
owner, CEO, and founder of Tax Alchemy.
Yep, that's right. And uh I mean, let's
just get right into it. You know, I
recently interviewed you. Yeah. Last
year you made $7 million. Yeah. This
year you're on track to do 11 million.
or was it? Yeah. So, when we first met,
I was reporting to you how much money I
had made in 2023, which was around about
seven and a half million. And then in
2024, I did a little bit over 11
million, which is incredible. Yeah. And
it was a great year. For the people
tuning in, how much money did you pay in
taxes last year? I paid 0 in federal
taxes last year. I do live in the state
of California, so I did pay a little bit
of state taxes. And how is that
possible? It's possible because I take a
lot of income off of my tax returns. I
like leveraging depreciation strategies
and income shifting strategies. And
because of this, I'm able to pretty much
wipe away my tax bill every single year.
But it's not easy. I start on my tax
planning right at the beginning of the
year. And some of the moves that I'm
making require me to be pretty active in
real estate in order for me to be able
to do this. I love it. Now, for
everybody watching, this podcast is
going to be a master class on all things
taxes and business. And before we get
into asking you some questions about
that, breaking down the tax code, we
want to know how you got into this
business. Tell us your story about why
this is the business that you wanted to
pursue and how you got here. Yeah, so my
mom is the lady goat of the tax and
accounting space. She's been in the tax
industry for over 30 years. Growing up,
I got to see um a queen in a
maledominated profession dominate. Um
she was speaking on news channels. Uh
she was speaking on radio shows. She
wrote her own book and she had people
lining up to work with her. It was so
rare to see a woman entrepreneur finding
success in a maledominated industry,
especially someone that's self-employed
out the gate doing it. That being said,
growing up, I envied, you know, the the
way in which my mom carried herself and
how she built this lifestyle for us. So,
I told myself, I'm going to become an
entrepreneur one day. Well, when I
graduated college, I started a personal
training business and I didn't report
all of my personal training income on my
tax returns. I got a letter in the mail
from Uncle Sam saying that I owed him
more money than I had in my bank
account. Instantly knew I had made a
mistake. Called up my mom. She's like,
"Why didn't you call me? Why didn't we
set up an LLC? why didn't I, you know,
help you make some deductions? So, this
was my first time learning about Uncle
Sam, getting a little bit killed in
taxes from him. And it was time for me
to start stepping into the world of
business and entrepreneurship. But I
already was kind of had the card stacked
against me because I was in debt. So, I
moved out of Los Angeles right after I
graduated college to Orange County,
California, back in with my parents. and
I convinced my mom that I wanted to
start a sales division inside of her
business. Fast forward about 3 months
into the business, I hadn't earned any
money because I didn't know anything
about taxes. And then one day, she told
me to come into her office and just
listen to her for the day. I listened to
her that entire day and I watched as she
eloquent eloquently closed three
separate people on tax planning deals
worth $20,000 each. She made like
$60,000 in three hours. And in the back
of my mind, I was like, "Dude, I want to
be able to have that lifestyle. And
right now, I'm not making a whole lot of
money, so I'm going to go get a voice
recorder, put it underneath her desk,
listen to everything that she has ever
said, and I'll turn around and get that
voice recorder transcribed so I can make
some sales." And that's exactly what I
did, James. I got that voice recorder
from Target. I put it underneath her
desk. I recorded about an two maybe
three hours worth of of her sales um
that she did the following day and got
it transcribed from rev.com and then I
had my very first sales script and I
made my first sale. It wasn't until a
year later where I realized that not
having my tax license was preventing me
from going to that next level of income.
I was capped at about $100,000 because I
could really only talk to people that
were making about 50 to 100,000 and help
them with tax planning. But millionaires
and entrepreneurs that were making more
money, um, they needed to talk to people
who had a tax license. And so I
eventually got my tax license a year
later. What's the difference between
someone that's making 50 to 100K and
then the millionaires that you're
speaking to now? What's the difference
there? The person that's making 50 to
100K doesn't have enough capital to
really do a lot of investing. So a lot
of the tax strategies that they're going
to do are extremely basic, and they were
the ones that I was already familiar
with. writing off your home office,
writing off your basic car payment, um,
and maybe something simple like placing
a child on payroll because that's not
that complicated of a strategy. But when
you become a millionaire, you start
setting up multiple corporations, you're
moving money between corporations,
you're buying large assets, large
commercial buildings, and the tax
returns get deeper, thicker, and the the
knowledge that you need to have around
those strategies is dense. And so, I
didn't have that knowledge yet. I was
only 23, 24 years old, you know, selling
little tax plans to the average real
estate agent or mortgage lender. And
when I ran into my first millionaire was
when I got humbled because he was worth
$100 million and I couldn't tell him how
I could help him. And so how where did
you go from there? You said he's worth
$100 million. What happened next? Did
you pass it off to the mom or what's the
story there? This is a funny situation.
So he came into the office to meet with
my mother. At the time I wasn't meeting
with millionaires yet. I was pretty much
in six-figure land. And because my
mother had stepped out for somewhat of
an emergency, she told me, Carlton, you
need to take over my appointments for
the rest of the day. I said, "Okay, I'm
used to taking appointments on the
phone. This person's coming into the
office." Now, when this person came into
the office, we met in the conference
room, and he was a lot older, like in
his 80s older, and he brought his wife
with him. Here's where things got
complicated. He had his tax returns with
him, and he was adamant about me reading
through those returns during the
appointment. At the time, I was used to
my same cell script saying it over and
over again, telling people how my
mother's team was going to be able to
help them. Didn't have my tax license
yet. When I opened the tax returns and I
saw on line one that it read that his
income for the year was just over 100
million, I immediately felt the sweat
start to build up on my back. And then I
went through the pages and I started
reading through the types of businesses
he owned. He owned a meat packing
company, multiple commercial properties,
and the guy instantly started sharing
with me why he got into
entrepreneurship. But I closed up the
tax returns and started listening to
him. And then he said, "Tell me what we
can do." I went through the tax planning
process and he stopped me within the
first five minutes of me and explaining
my pitch and he said, "Young man, young
man, my tax returns are right there.
Open up the returns and explain to me
what you can do."
And this is when I had to open up the
tax returns and kind of like work
through the situation. And he stopped me
and he says, he's like, "You don't
really do this, do you?" And I'm like,
"Listen, my mother is the one that
normally reads through the returns. I'm
here to kind of explain how the process
works." And he instantly pushes himself
away from the conference table, gets up,
and says, "Let your mother know that
I'll be back when she's available. Until
then, have a have a nice day." Now, at
the time, I was just graduated from
football. I probably weighed 210 pounds,
8% body fat. I was diesel, ready to go.
Every ounce of testosterone in my body
left in that moment because I felt like
I like literally could not support this
guy. I had no knowledge. I couldn't even
tell him what to do. I felt like a
little dog with a tail tucked between
his legs. That night, I went home. I
went on to the computer and I said,
"What is the what is the highest
designation I can get in a tax license
without me having to go spend five more
years in college?" And it was the
enrolled agent's license. It's the
highest designation the IRS gives out
for tax accounting or really tax
professionals. And you are proficient in
tax law and tax strategy. Boom. Sign me
up. 6 months later, I passed all three
exams and I felt like a kid who got hit
by a a school bus and woke up the next
day with superpowers. Not only did I
have the sales skills, now I actually
understand tax. I actually understand
tax strategy. Do you think it's
necessary to be humbled in business? Cuz
cuz you kind cuz I say that because I
feel like a lot of entrepreneurs, they
kind of need that moment where that
client walks out or you get disrespected
in in the room with with those types of
people. Was that was that needed to kind
of unlock and get to that next level?
100% it was needed. I mean, coming out
of college where I was the man on campus
and, you know, playing football and, you
know, I just was used to finding success
and even making my first six figures
without having to get my tax license.
Like, not too many people were doing
that at 23 or 24 years old at the time.
But then getting humbled like that, I
mean, truly embarrassed like that in my
mother's office and then having the guy
pretty much tell me, "Go get your mom to
come talk to me." Dude, that was enough
for me to say, "Yeah, I need to take a
step back here, get off my high horse,
and go study and dig into the books."
And I'm glad I did. Um because I've been
humbled a couple of times as I've been
building up um this brand. So, as you
were getting, you know, that higher
designated tax license, what are some of
those things, you know, for people out
there that are listening that might not
be super high earners that like maybe
they could write off like right away?
Well, the biggest thing that I learned
when I was studying for the tax uh for
my tax uh license was code section 162A.
Code section 162A states that business
owners can take business deductions if
the deductions are ordinary, necessary,
and reasonable to the business owner in
the pursuit of income. When I talk to
people who are like, "How do I take more
write offs?" I always remind them that
the tax code is an incentive program and
it incentivizes people who are spending
money. W2 taxpayers technically don't
create opportunities for other people
when they spend money because they're
working for somebody else. But if you
can start a business, you can use code
section 162A. You can turn everyday
expenses that you have into ordinary,
necessary, and reasonable expenses in
the pursuit of income. So that laptop
that you have can become a ride-off.
That cell phone that you have can become
a ride-off. That car that you're driving
every single day can become a ride-off.
And these are expenses that every single
person has, but only business owners are
able to write them off. So, how can we
first get you into a business and
second, how can we start leveraging code
section 162A to start opening up more
deductions that you're already spending
your money on? You know, you were
talking about making those everyday
expenses things that you can write off.
You had a client, the real estate
professional. Tell us the story about
the yacht. Oh my goodness. So, we had a
client come in after I got my tax
license that met in that conference
room. Again, this was a younger lady and
she was dressed in a Louis Vuitton dress
from head to toe. Had on a Louis
matching Vuitton bag. You could just
tell that she was just dripped in money
and she was a little bit upset when she
came into the office as if we had
already pissed her off. Yet, we were
meeting her for the very first time. So,
she came into the office. We sat in the
conference room. I was with my mother at
the time, actually, and she brought two
copies of tax returns. One for my
mother, one for me. She slid it across
the conference room table and said,
"Let's see what you guys can do." Look,
I looked down at the tax returns. I'm
like, "Okay." By this time, I already
knew how to read returns. So, I'm ready
to go. I open up to the first page.
Boom. notice red
$1,100. I'm like, why are we why are we
getting this notice on the top of your
tax returns? And I flip over to the next
page and explains what the notice is.
The notice is for a disallowed vehicle
on our tax returns. So my mother asks
her, "Hey, um, Mrs. Johnson, let's just
say, what is this vehicle that you have
on your tax returns that the IRS is
disallowing?" And she's like, "Well,
it's a boat." We're like, "What type of
boat?" "A yacht." "What? Why are we
riding off a yacht?" I said and she's
like, "Well, I use a yacht for business
because I'm a real estate agent. My
clients want to be able to see the homes
that they buy from the views of the
ocean. I take my clients out in Newport
Beach, Dana, Dana Point, and my clients
are famous basketball players like Kobe
Bryant, Shaquille O'Neal, and they don't
want to just shop from the curb. They
want to shop from the ocean. By the way,
I don't understand why the IRS is
disallowing this when I know that I'm
only doing business on my boat. Now, at
the time, this was my first time ever
running into somebody that was trying to
ride off a yacht. So, I eventually
looked over to my mother's eyes just to
kind of see how she was gauging the
conversation. And she was stone cold as
if she had done this a million times.
She immediately said, "Do you have any
documentation to prove that you were
utilizing the boat for business
purpose?" And she said, "Well, will
photos suffice?" She said, "Photos will
help, but what I'm looking for is
documentation of your business clients
coming on and off the boat and any
transactions that were done shortly
after." And she says,"I can send you all
of my transactions that I did this year.
Um, and I can also share with you the
log booklet that my captain has. My
captain, who runs my boat, logs every
single human being that comes on and off
of my boat at the date and time that
they come on and the date and time that
they come off."
So, what we did is we took that log
booklet and those photos into her audit
that she had because she was getting
audited by the IRS. And what did we use?
We use code section 162A. This is an
ordinary and necessary and reasonable
expense to our business owner. Why?
Because she makes millions of dollars
selling real estate to these clients.
She's on the TV show Million-Dollar
Listing. She's doing way more marketing
than most real estate agents. And this
boat was ordinary, necessary, and
reasonable. Look at the log book that we
have. every single person that's came on
and off plus the transactions of the
money she's made after that IRS audit
ended in five
minutes and that was when I knew
everything I needed to know about the
IRS. The IRS are like dentists. They're
just there to check check on things if
you already know you have a cavity
before you go into the dentist's office.
You know whether or not the dentist is
going to ask if you flossed or not. And
these are the types of things that get
people into trouble with the IRS. Not
documenting your expenses. not making
sure that you're separating your
business transactions from your personal
transactions. These are basic things
that you can do to make sure that you
can stay in compliance with the IRS and
have fun. And it's no different than
brushing your teeth twice a day and
flossing every single day. I swear to
God. Yeah, I was going to say that I
feel that so many people they probably
don't they're not that there's probably
so many business owners that you see
that are not that meticulous when it
comes to like keeping receipts. like
they'll go out for like a client deal
like client dinner or something and they
they won't keep the receipts for that
meal till 100% uh to the IRS. It's crazy
because you have such successful
business owners that can't do the basic
things right. And so what prevents them
from achieving the success that they're
meant to have is their inability to be
disciplined in organizing themselves.
Guys, I can't even begin to tell you how
many clients, people that I even looked
up to that I've come to the table and
I'm like, are you really this
disorganized? You really haven't filed
your tax returns in the last two years,
no one's done your bookkeeping for the
last couple of years. You have no
receipts
whatsoever. It becomes extremely
dangerous when you're filing tax returns
in the millions of expenses without
receipts and then you get an IRS audit.
They don't care that you have bank
statements. And here's the reason why.
Bank statements don't tell me what you
spent your money on. So, if you went to
Home Depot and you spent $1,000 and it
says $1,000 on your bank statement, how
do I know that that thousand dollars
wasn't on you spending money on your
personal house versus you spending money
on your rental property or any side of
your business? So, the IRS needs those
receipts in an IRS audit to validate
those expenses that you have. And we
have entrepreneurs that are making
millions of dollars that can't do those
basic things, right? What's what's the
best way to go about logging all those
receipts? I mean cuz people, you know,
especially as you scale up a business,
you're making transactions almost every
single day. Yes. So, how do you
recommend people actually go about
logging, you know, all their
transactions? So, the transactions that
have to be saved are transactions that
are over $75. Transactions under $75,
the IRS calls those dimminimous
expenses. So, you don't really have to
keep receipts for those transactions.
But the transactions over $75, we're in
2025. Take photos of every single thing.
Why not? And then if you're eating out,
what the IRS likes to see is who are you
with and what was the meeting for,
right? If you're eating over a business
meal, just write that down on the back
of the receipt and then take a photo of
it. The reason why I always recommend
taking photos is one, we've seen this
happen before in the past where our
clients lost all of their tax documents
in a hurricane that hit Florida. IRS
does not care about hurricanes. They
don't care about earthquakes. Don't care
about really any natural disasters. What
they care about is whether or not you
have access to your documentation. So,
when our client didn't have access to
her receipts anymore because they blew
over in a hurricane, some of those
expenses that she had got disallowed by
the IRS, even though she had proof of
them. So, we have since then educated
all of our clients on taking digital
copies of everything. And ever since
COVID, the IRS prefers digital copies
anyways. How many times have you read
the tax code? I read the tax code
probably every single day. What's the
number one tax loophole that you found
when you first read it? You couldn't
believe that it was legal. The
short-term rental loophole for sure. I
couldn't even believe it was legal
because most W2 taxpayers believe that
they cannot invest in real estate and
offset their W2 income. But as soon as I
found that short-term rental loophole, I
wanted to exploit it. I wanted it to be
out everywhere. I wanted everyone to
know about it because then it
immediately turns W2 taxpayers into
business owners. When you invest in real
estate, real estate is an investment and
it's a business. And if you can offset
your W2 taxes with short-term rentals,
that loophole that was created, then
man, we can turn around and get you some
of that hard-earned money back and help
you reinvest more money faster and get
you to retirement faster. How much money
do you think you need to be making to
start taking advantage of that of the
short-term rental loophole? I would say
you it's more or less how much money you
have set aside to jump into real estate,
right? There's ways in which you can get
get into real estate without any money
down, but I would say the average
investor is going to need 20% down. I
wouldn't recommend jumping into real
estate in general unless you have 100K
saved up. That's like a good rule of
thumb. Get to 100K and then jump in. So,
let's say somebody does have that 100K
saved up. Yeah. They've been diligent
over the last year to put it to the
side. Yeah. How would you again, let's
let's give them that actionable formula
of how you would do it. How have you
done it for your clients and yourself?
So, here's what we do. We first we want
to get your payubs of your W2 and
project out your income for the rest of
the year. Let's say we're in the month
of April. Cool. We have four months of
the year already documented. Let's
multiply with by the remaining eight
months we have left to determine what is
your estimated adjusted gross income and
your estimated tax liability. Now, we
can work backwards. If we already know
how much is probably going to go to
Uncle Sam, why wouldn't we start
figuring out how we can offset that now?
So, what we end up doing is figuring out
your budget for an investment property.
If you have that 100K saved, that can
probably get you a half a million dollar
property. If we're using all 100K, we
close escrow on that property. And now
we have some rules to abide. We need to
make sure that we're managing that
property for a 100 hours in the year.
And no one else manages that property
more than us. and we need to make sure
that the average guest stays in that
property are 7 days or less in the
entire year. If we can execute those
three things, we're now in a situation
where that investment property that we
bought is considered an active
investment. The last thing we got to do
is pull the trigger on what's called a
cost segregation study. That's a
strategy that creates a paper loss by
accelerating depreciation. You're
essentially writing off all the
appliances, the flooring, the drywall,
and the electrical in one year as
opposed to 27 and a half years, forcing
a big loss on the tax return. And
because you made the investment active
when you file your returns, that loss
flows over to offset that W2 income.
This is how many of my tax or many of my
clients end up becoming taxree. What
would you say? So, I mean, you know, so
many different tax strategies from the
short-term rental, but what would you
say for the average business owner is
the number one just most underutilized
tax strategy just overall? Entity
shifting. If you are in an LLC,
transitioning from an LLC to an escorp
is probably going to be the first thing
that saves you money as an entrepreneur.
I cannot even begin to tell you how many
clients we have submitted
2553 forms for. It's pretty much an S
election document that transitions an
LLC over to an escorp. The reason why
you save money is because you're not
paying 15.3% self-employment tax on all
your business's profit. You're now
paying 15.3% payroll taxes on what you
take out of your business. And as
business owners, we get to control how
much we take out of our business, right?
So, if I only have to pay 15.3% on how
much I take out of my business, I'm
going to make sure I'm very smart around
how much payroll I take, knowing that
the rest of my business profit is no
longer subject to
15.3% payroll or self-employment taxes.
So, you're saving 15.3% on all your
business's profit less what you took in
salary. And I'm curious for I know when
you switch to an S corporate, you have
to pay yourself like a reasonable
salary. Correct. And how do you go
about, you know, paying yourself a
reasonable salary while also taking
distributions that are, you know, fair
to yourself? It's a balancing act for
sure, and business owners get confused
on this all the time. Distributions are
when you transfer money out of your S
corporation bank account into yourself
or into your personal account
personally. And then a salary is where
you're dishing out a W2 paycheck to
yourself. For S corporation owners, what
I'd recommend is to start off with
distributions until your business is
generating substantial profits to where
it makes sense to draw out a salary.
Because really, if your business isn't
generating substantial profits yet, and
when I say substantial, let's just say
in excess of 3 to 400 grand, you
probably don't want to place yourself on
payroll too early in the year. And
here's the reason why. If you place
yourself on payroll earlier in the year,
you're essentially paying into payroll
taxes throughout the year. That's money
you could have reinvested into your
business to grow your business, and you
could have given yourself a payroll
check in Q4, right? You you technically
only have to cut yourself one payroll
check in the entire year. So, you could
choose to reinvest all of your business
money back into your business, growing
your business, or into tax strategies
like Carlton will help you do. And then
we get to December and then I write your
paycheck to you one time and withhold
your paycheck one time. So yeah, payroll
is a balancing act. And we also have to
talk about QBID, qualified business
income deduction. Why? Because S
corporation owners also receive this 20%
qualified business income deduction. But
if their income is above right around
400,000, then they phase out from it. So
now I need to know how much I need to
give you in a salary relative to how
much you're going to receive in a QVI
deduction. Now you got me all in my tax
strategy stuff. James, you you know you
know they don't they don't teach that in
school, right? Oh, 100%. So So you
brought up the yacht story, but one
fascinating aspect of writing things off
for taxes that has always fascinated me
is uh riding off a car. Yeah. And so
like I know you got the wagon, the G
wagon, and then so I and and I I've seen
a bunch of entrepreneurs, they they have
a car that they can ride off. Explain to
myself as I'm looking because for me,
I'm looking at a G Wagon. and it's like,
oh, that's the next car that I would
want to buy. And so it's like, but for
me, part of that is I want to be able to
potentially get tax advantages for that.
Um, obviously, if I'm using it
reasonably, kind of break down how
somebody can do that. Yeah. So, when it
comes to vehicle deductions, the IRS
wants to make sure that the vehicle is
used in your business for more than 50%
of the time. How does the IRS know that?
You're going to have to track your time.
There's apps like, you know, Mile IQ.
QuickBooks has a way for you to track
your mileage on QuickBooks as well, but
essentially what you need to do is kind
of look over a 365day calendar period
and determine how many of those days am
I working and how many of those days are
personal. I know for most business
owners about 80% of the time they're
working and about 80% of the time
they're using a business vehicle. The
other 20% of the time is personal, which
is means the other 20% of the vehicle is
going to be personal. So, if I have a
$100,000 car and I place it into
business use and I'm using it for
business 80% of the time, I'm going to
get a
$80,000 deduction over time. And the IRS
allows for you to depreciate a car over
the course of 5 years. So, I would
essentially take that $80,000 over 5
years. Now, part of the reason why
entrepreneurs are attracted to larger
vehicles is because of a tax code called
code section 179 in combination with
another tax code called code section
168K. That is bonus depreciation.
Essentially, with these two tax codes in
unison, you're able to write off a
vehicle that weighs over 6,000 lbs in
one year, but as of 2025, bonus
depreciation is at 40%. So, if I had
that $100,000 card, I'd essentially only
get $40,000 in the first year. But
here's the benefit to me. If I'm
self-employed, I could finance that
vehicle. And sometimes there's companies
that will do 0% interest financing,
right? So, you could put 0% down and get
a $40,000 deduction on a vehicle right
at the end of the year. That's business
use. That's pretty awesome. What if
Donald Trump increases that bonus
depreciation back to 100%. Now, I can
ride off a $100,000 vehicle with 0%
down. And so this is a way in which the
government has incentivized business
owners um to purchase these larger scale
vehicles and in return they get to
leverage bonus depreciation on their tax
returns reducing their taxable income.
So for an entrepreneur you know there's
different levels like at the school hard
knocks we always like to say every level
is a new devil. And so when you start
making more money as a business owner
how do you kind of know that maybe hey
and maybe you have a bookkeeper or
something like that. How do you know
when it's time to maybe I need to get
way savvier about my taxes? You will
feel the burn. And this is when most
people will go around the advice that
they've been given from their typical
CPA and they'll seek out a tax
strategist like me. 90% of my clients
that come over to me already have a CPA
when they come to me. A CPA too that
they've had on their team for five 10
years that they've loved. I just want to
speak on this real quick. I'm going to
be honest. I feel like 90% of the CPAs
are working for the government.
It feels like it sometimes, right? I'm
like, I mean, whose team are you on? And
it feels like that because majority of
CPAs kind of feel like they're negative
when you talk to them. They're always
telling you what you can't do and not
really showing you what to do. And the
truth is is that most CPAs went to
accounting school to study how to file a
completed tax return with as little
mistakes or discrepancies as possible.
So they almost act just like the IRS.
Whereas enrolled agents, we get a tax
license that's around tax law. Why was
this law created? How can a client use
this law? And so we're super proficient
in figuring out how to get in and out of
strategies. Whereas a CPA is really good
at telling you, no, this is how the
return is going to get filed and you
didn't do this, so this is why we're
going to file it like this. So they're
super super negative sometimes that they
don't have that tax strategy knowledge.
This is uh something that's always
fascinated me about your brand is is
with you brought up most people they go
to school for tax and accounting and
they just kind of play it by the book.
Yes. And they kind of work that
corporate role and most tax accountant
accounts they're not known but one thing
that's been really cool about your brand
is like it seems that you've been able
to master marketing and personal
branding that sort of put you above the
rest. What are some of those things that
you've learned about marketing, personal
branding that maybe other CPAs or other
tax strategists out there like they need
to take note of in order to break
through the mold? Yeah, I mean, I don't
view myself as like the smartest tax
professional, but I will say that I've
probably garnered some of the most
attention as a tax professional on the
internet. And what I know about
marketing probably sets me up for
success more than the average CPA
because most of these CPAs or tax
professionals are going to are going to
school to become really good CPAs or tax
professionals. But what I noticed about
CPAs or tax professionals is that
they're afraid to charge for what they
know. That is the number one thing that
I learned about them. And I didn't grow
up like that because I just grew up
around my mother who was already an
entrepreneur. Um, and she was already
going out there scraping to get what she
deserved, right? And so most of these
CPAs are somewhat resistant to charging
for what they know. So it holds them
back. On the marketing side of it, they
could easily play into some of the same
things that I played into early on in my
career, which is figuring out what are
people looking for in the space. I went
on to uh Google Trends uh in 2021 right
as I started my YouTube channel and I
just Google searched what are people
looking for in the tax space LLC's and
it said how to pay yourself as an LLC,
how to place your children on payroll as
an LLC. In my first couple of videos,
all I did was just do exactly what
Google told me to do. Create videos
around what people are Google
searching. Six months later, I had my
first 100,000 subscribers on YouTube,
right? And I'm not saying that I created
those videos with the best production
quality. Majority of them were filmed on
my iPhone starting out. But what I was
doing was I was solving a problem for
people. As soon as I saw that that
worked, then I realized, okay, YouTube
is a a search engine, so I'm just going
to go take up all the real estate on
YouTube. Anything that's tax related, I
better have a video about it. If it's
talking about crypto and taxes,
retirement strategies and taxes,
Camala's tax plan, Trump's tax plan, I
better have a video about it. And so I
just started covering all the real
estate on the internet. I wanted to ask,
you know, you surround yourself with a
lot of great people. I follow you along.
We're in a lot of the same circles of a
lot of those super successful known
entrepreneurs that are getting after it.
But what did your mom teach you about
business? Because your mom's very
successful as an entrepreneur. What What
are some lessons that she instilled in
you that enabled her to have such a
successful practice? You spent a lot of
time with her. You worked with her. What
did your mom teach you about business?
Yeah, some of the most important things
my mom told me about business was to
never cut corners. um she knew that I
was a very savvy person and you know I'm
the type of guy that's can figure out
how to get his homework done in five
minutes as opposed to an hour. Like I
was always just a quick person and
sometimes um you know my traits can get
me into trouble sometimes. And one of
the most important lessons that my mom
taught me was Carlton sometimes it's
better to go slow than to go fast. you
have the ability to want to achieve
success so quickly sometimes that you
can get yourself into trouble. I never
want you to cut a corner or do something
that's out of ethics just because you
want to obtain something. You're going
to get there. Trust in your abilities.
Trust yourself. And slow is the new
fast. That's that's what she would
always say to me, Carlton. Slow is the
new fast. I promise if you can just slow
down long enough, everything will happen
for you. So, as I went through life, I
was presented with m multiple
opportunities where I could have cut
corners, um, you know, to garner more
cash or business or whatever it is or
jump in opportunities that weren't very
clear but could benefit Carlton. And I
chose not to because I was reminded of
those lessons that my mom taught me,
which is, dude, don't cut corners.
Everything is right there laid out for
you. Trust in God and in your abilities.
Um, so those are some of the most
important key lessons. And then also
um be quick to fire early to or sorry be
be quick to fire, be slow to hire. Right
when I started becoming an entrepreneur,
my mom saw that the writing was on the
wall that I wasn't going to be working
in her company forever. I was going to
step out and do my own thing. And I
started bringing people around me. And I
brought people that, you know, were
friends first around me. And although
you know I was finding some success, I
definitely wasn't getting the success
that I needed because they were friends
and you know some of them were kind of
taking advantage of the platform that I
had. What my mom did was rather than
judging what I was doing or trying to
step into my shoes and you know control
what I was building. She just gave me
lessons and tidbits. Carlton, you're
going to love these people forever.
You're going to they're going to be your
friends if you want them to be your
friends. But keep this lesson very close
to you. Be slow to hire and be quick to
fire. Because some of your friends
around you, you would rather have them
as friends as opposed to business
partners. You would rather just cut it
now as opposed to carry this thing along
so you can keep that relationship that
you had with them since you were young.
And so I look back at some of the
relationships and ties that I had to cut
off as I was building my business. And
I'm grateful that I did because um some
of those relationships are still intact
right now. we were able to kind of part
ways and I'm able to replace some of
those people with what the business
needed. I want to talk about that
concept real quick about, you know,
hiring slow and firing fast cuz a lot of
people, you know, we were just talking
about earlier how, you know, a
gentleman, a billionaire that we had
interviewed recently was telling the
story about him having to fire the top
sales producer in his company in the
hospitality business that he owned. Um,
but a lot of people, they'll want to
hold on to that person for a long time
despite it's limiting them from
unlocking that full potential. What are
some red flags that you see or those
instant signs where you're like, "Okay,
I need to go to the drawing board and
it's probably time for this person to
go." Or there's some telltale signs
where you're just like immediately this
person has to go. Like once you kind of
see it, that way people don't have to
kind of prolong somebody out there.
They're running that business. They're
making the first couple hires. That way
they're not stagnating their growth
because they don't have the right people
in their organization. Yeah. For me,
man, I've always been a punctual person.
You know, first impressions are lasting
impressions. Um, showing up on time is
showing up late to me. I value people
that show up early. Um, I value people
that can follow directions. Um, you
know, as simple as putting together a
cover letter when I'm telling you to put
together a cover letter for an interview
versus just sending over your resume. It
could be the littlest things to me. Um,
and I would say personally, bro, the the
the biggest honestly is punctuality.
Because if you show up correct, even if
you don't have all of the skills, if you
just show up ready to go with a can do
attitude, man, that can get you so far
in life, but there's sometimes people
that don't take advantage of an
opportunity the right way. They don't
show up to the occasion the right way.
And that's how I ended up getting rid of
people pretty quickly. I absolutely love
that. And that's something that I feel
like is really true within our business
as well is like I'll take someone with
an exceptional character and average
skills versus exceptional skills and
average character because you know that
person if they're a great person they're
willing to grow. They're willing to
invest in themselves and they're
probably going to be coachable and that
can be someone that's going to far
exceed you know someone who doesn't have
those qualities. And something that I'm
curious for you is I mean you were
working your mom's tax business, you
started your own venture. What's been
the challenges of scaling your own
business? And I'm kind of curious to
hear like what what's just been the
challenges of scaling your own venture
versus working alongside your mom. Yeah,
man. I think what it is is not trying to
bite off more than I can chew. I'm
extremely ambitious person and uh a lot
of the team members that I have around
me um share in that ambition and because
they share in that ambition um they're
willing to do whatever for the company
and sometimes they don't know that
they're a danger to themselves sometimes
because of that attitude that I bring
too right and so as a leader what I've
done is I've I've put better systems and
processes in place for scaled growth
rather than saying we're just going to
try to go to the moon this year and hit
this target without knowing what that's
going to feel like. We kind of already
map out the feelings that we want to
have happen at each point of the growth.
We know that there's going to be growing
pains as we continue to grow, but it
doesn't have to feel this bad every
single time. We don't have to have
knee-jerk reactions every time, you
know, we have a huge month or we we we
jump up in revenue. So what we decided
to do is we put a system in process in
place for uh for sustained growth. We're
going to grow at a certain percentage
every single quarter. We're going to
have certain targets that we're going to
hit every single quarter versus just
saying let's just go to the moon. And
also one of the things that's really
helped us is having a better system for
hiring because one of the biggest issues
in the tax and accounting space I would
say is having the right type of
professionals that want to communicate
with clients. Um, the average CPA is
used to going to accounting school and
getting dropped into an H&R block or
into a big four behind a desk and never
never really run into a client. They're
never really client-f facing. They get a
bunch of documents loaded up into a
computer and they're told to work on
those documents. They may email a
client, but rarely do they get on a
phone with a client or Zoom a client. In
my business, it's completely opposite.
We are entirely on Zoom. We have Slack
channels. We are communicating with our
clients 24/7, 365. So the type of
professionals that I need are
professionals that have that demeanor
that they want to communicate with
clients, they want to help clients,
whereas the average CPA or tax
professional is more accustomed to being
introvert and behind a computer desk and
not wanting to meet with clients.
One thing is uh our business has scaled
up that we've came into realize is but
before we started making you know more
money always thought that it's like oh
you have the whole year to sort of plan
for taxes and uh you know recently we've
been sort of been hit with the concept
of quarterly payments. Can you kind of
break down how to handle that? What what
that what that entails? Because for me
it's it's a strange concept of like, oh,
like I might not have even like made all
this money yet and maybe I could write
off a ton of it. Why do I have to pay
quarterly? Yeah. So, most people that
are paying into quarterly taxes have
probably have already filed tax returns
and have gotten a voucher from their CPA
saying, "Hey, this is how much you owed
last year. So, if you don't don't want
to get into a situation where you get
surprised with the tax bill, we're going
to get ahead of it this time by paying
it quarterly." So essentially what
you're doing is you're letting the IRS
have a percentage of the taxes every
single quarter. I personally don't like
those estimated tax payments. Why?
Because it takes money away out of my
pocket that I could have used to
reinvest back into my business that
could have reduced my tax bill or into
other investments that could have
reduced my tax bill. So, if we get
started on tax planning at the beginning
of the year and I already know how much
income you're potentially going to make
for the year and how much liquidity we
need to have in order to offset your
taxes, then we can start reducing the
amount of estimated tax payments that
you need to make knowing that we're
freeing up that money to do additional
investing that's going to ultimately
result in us offsetting your taxes on
the back income April 15th in the
following year. I have clients that
ultimately came to me already making
millions in estimated tax payments, but
after we started doing strategies, we're
barely sending any estimated tax
payments because we were doing enough
tax planning proactively that it didn't
even make sense to send off that money
anymore. I wanted to go back to kind of
the beginning how I was talking to you
about, you know, you had some incredible
years recently and obviously you've been
able to offset the federal taxes. Let's
say we send a business owner to you.
They're doing anywhere from $1 to $10
million. they want to have that same
threshold where they don't have federal
taxes and you brought up the income
shifting strategies. Could you give the
people a blueprint real quick? Um, what
exactly you would do with that client
and how you would do it? So, depending
on the client's comfortability level and
where their net profit is, let's just
say a million dollars for right now.
Let's just say their their net profits
at a million dollars. So, what I'm going
to do is try to figure out if I need to
keep them in a place where they still
need to buy something in the following
year from a lending perspective on the
tax returns. Because if you're somebody
that wants to offset all your taxes, but
in the following year you want to buy
your dream home, well, your mortgage
lender is going to look at your tax
returns and if Carlton Dennis took all
the income off of your tax returns,
we're going to be in a little bit of a
situation where you can't qualify for
that dream home anymore, right? So, I
first want to make sure I just ask all
the right questions first before I just
wipe out your tax bill. First thing I'm
going to re uh first ask you is are we
open to doing any real estate related
strategies? The reason why is because if
you've already spent money on everything
you've wanted to spend money on as a
business owner, then I'm not going to
jump into your business and have you
start prepaying for expenses for the
following year. That doesn't make you a
very profitable business, and that's not
always smart to do. But if we take some
money out of the business and invest it
into real estate, I can now help you buy
a short-term rental or maybe qualify
your spouse as a real estate
professional. And now I can perform a
cost segregation study. Maybe I take
200,000 or a quarter million out of the
business and I go buy a million-doll
property. That million-doll property is
going to give me anywhere between 150 to
250,000 worth of active depreciation if
we're using the short-term rental
strategy or the real estate professional
strategy. Boom. Now, we dropped our
million, let's just say, down to about
$750,000 of taxable income. Now, what
I'll also look at is, are you interested
in oil and gas investing? Because oil
and gas investing allows for you to have
active tax deductions, active losses on
your tax returns if you're investing in
a working interest as a general partner.
We have the ability to have our clients
jump into oil and gas investments that
makes them an active investor and
they're seeing anywhere between 80 to
90% of their initial investment in a
year one tax deduction. So maybe I'll
have you park around 200,000 into oil
and gas investments. And now I have
another 150,000 that just came off of
your taxable income. So now I have you
back down to probably around half a
million dollars. Well, the IRS has the
ability for you to set up your own
private family foundation. You can roll
over 30% of your adjusted gross income
into your own private family foundation.
So maybe I want you to put we're we're
we're getting philanthropic. Oh, we're
getting philanthropic now. Now you have
your own 501c3 with, you know, maybe
some of your family members as board
members underneath your private family
foundation. Now, I allocated another
$150,000 over to your
501c3. Now, your adjusted gross income
is at
350,000. Now, I might have you make a
contribution into your self-directed
401k. Or I might have you max out a SE
at 69,000. Now, I have you somewhere
around 200, let's just say. Should I
keep going further? Now, I just have you
just buy a car that's over 6,000. Just
wipe that out now. Oh, wow. So, so, so I
I want to ask about the uh the
depreciation aspect because because you
hear people, you know, talk about um you
know, buy the property and you can write
off the depreciation. What is that
process actually like? You make the
investment in the property. Let's say it
starts to cash flow a couple months in,
come to the end of the year. How how do
you file that on your taxes? Like how do
you write the depreciation? So, taking
depreciation happens like this. First
thing you have to understand is that
there's two doors you can go down. You
can go down as an active investor or you
can go down the door as a passive
investor. If you go down the door as a
passive investor, essentially what
you're saying to the IRS is, "I am
making money passively off of this
investment property. I have a property
manager or I I I'm barely involved in
the day-to-day management of the
property. I just collect rents." If this
is the case, the depreciation that is
given to you from the property is
considered passive depreciation. Can
only offset the rental income that
you're receiving, not your W2, not your
self-employed income from your S
corporation or your LLC. So, when we
file your tax returns, it'll be reported
on your tax returns as passive
depreciation. Bummer. Or we can go down
door number one, which is as an active
investor. As an active investor, you
have two doors. You can go down the
short-term rental route, or you can go
down the real estate professional route.
The real estate professional route
requires you to spend 750 hours managing
your investment properties in the year
in which you materially participate. And
you have to show the IRS you're spending
more time in rental real estate
activities than any other activities,
which is more than your W2 or 1099 job.
For most people, they can't do that
unless they have a spouse that's not
working, that's probably taking care of
the kids. Let's assume that we do not
have a spouse. Now, we're in a situation
where we have to go down the short-term
rental loophole. This is where we have
to manage the property for 100 hours in
the year and the average guest stays in
the property have to be 7 days or less.
So, if I'm in this bucket here where I
have to do the short-term rental rule,
what I have to do then is I have to
close escrow on a property, get the
property furnished or close escrow with
a property fully furnished, list it on
Airbnb, VBO, set my dates to seven days
or less, make sure that I have a minimum
of three tenants, a minimum of 15 rental
days because the IRS likes to see a good
amount of rental days. That means that I
have well into the uh good amount of
rental days that the IRS needs for me to
have. Plus, I have my guest days on
average 7 days or less. When I go to
file my tax returns, I will have a cost
segregation study report completed right
before I file my returns. A cost
segregation study report is where an
engineer and a CPA separate all the
structural and non-structural components
of an investment property. Once that is
done, the loss is calculated on your tax
returns and it's filed in your returns
to offset W2 and 299 income. Now, in the
following year, you have an option to do
you have an option. Do I keep that
property as an active Airbnb property or
VRBO property or do I convert it into a
long-term rental and add it to my
portfolio and go get my next Airbnb?
This has been a master class. Wow. This
has been a master class so far. When
when I when I first uh interviewed you,
I asked or you said that the uh the IRS
knows who you are. Have they contacted
you before? Yes, they have. What was
that like? It was actually really funny.
It was if if you're able to talk about
it. Yeah, I'm able to talk about it. It
was in first year of my career. They
said they told me it was I made a
mistake on one of my YouTube videos
early on in one of my YouTube videos and
I said on my YouTube video that as an
accountant I like to do this. I'm not an
accountant. I'm a tax professional. I'm
not a CPA. I'm an enrolled agent. I'm a
true tax professional. I study tax law.
I do tax strategy. I don't do any
accounting work. I don't file tax
returns. I don't do any bookkeeping.
That doesn't mean I don't have an
incredible CPA team underneath me that
files returns and does all that. But I
called myself an accountant. What they
did was they reached out to me. They're
like, "Hey, we understand who you are.
We love the videos that you're creating,
but we understand that you're you're
letting people know that you're an
accountant. You're an enrolled agent,
which means you're a tax professional
under Circular 230. You need to make
sure you're addressing yourself
correctly on your
videos." Instantly took down that video
and it keeping tabs on people. Oh, they
keep tabs on They keep tabs on me for
sure. For sure. Like I'll I'll call into
the IRS and I'll just, you know, give
them my my EA license number and they'll
be like, "Oh, is this Mr. Dennis?" Like
some of the people in the IRS know me by
my my license number because I've called
in so many times over the years. And and
I know that, you know, you had mentioned
that we got the Trump administration in
right now. Are there any initiatives or
things that you think people should be
looking forward to? Are there any future
proposals that people should be thinking
about and getting ready for? Is that
something that you're monitoring and
keeping tabs on yourself? Yeah, I'm
keeping tabs on some of these um
proposals that Trump has made,
especially the no tax on tips and no tax
on overtime. I think if that ends up,
you know, coming to fruition, that'd be
absolutely amazing for the American
taxpayer. But the one that business
owners are probably wondering is when do
we get to see bonus depreciation coming
back to 100%. Right? Because in 2018
when Donald Trump rolled out his tax
cuts and jobs act, everybody rushed to
go buy equipment or buy vehicles that
were over 6,000 because bonus
depreciation was at 100%. Uh but right
around 2023 was when bonus depreciation
dropped to 80%. And then last year was
at 60%, now we're in 40% in 2025. So I
would say that is a big policy that a
lot of people are waiting to hear on
outside of the no taxes on tips and
possibly no taxes on overtime. There's a
there's a fiveletter word that every
entrepreneur fears. It's audit. O. And
is the is an audit something that the
average entrepreneur should fear? And
what are some ways that they can prepare
themselves in case that ever does come
their way that they can not worry about
it? Yeah. If you're an entrepreneur, you
should not fear the IRS because you
first were able to go out and create an
idea on your own. That to me is scary in
itself. not dealing with somebody that's
just there to to make sure that you
dotted the eyes and crossed the tees and
that you logged your expenses correctly.
Like I truly view the IRS like dentists.
They're just there to point out the
things that you're not doing that you
probably already knew that you weren't
doing. Um when it comes to an IRS audit,
you have the ability to reduce your
audit risk by simply making sure that
you're filing a tax return accurately,
reporting all of your income. Most
people who do end up getting audited
have under reportported income or made a
mistake on their return. So then their
return gets off of the conveyor belt of
being reviewed by a machine and gets
into a human's hands to be reviewed. And
that's typically where questions get
drawn out and that's typically where
audits start to rise. I also like to let
my entrepreneur know, you know, entity
structuring can also help you mitigate
audit as well. I really don't like
single member LLC's that much because
they file their returns inside of a
personal tax return on a schedule C. So
you can kind of see everything that's
going on inside of their business. All
their expenses all on one page. If you
have any questions, you can see
everything right there. So if you want
to audit a client, you have all the
ammunition you need. Whereas someone who
has a partnership LLC or an S
corporation files a completely separate
tax return and there's only one number
that gets reported inside their personal
returns, either a business loss or a
business profit. So, you would have to
have probable cause as an IRS agent to
like jump from a personal return all the
way over to a corporate return. And even
inside of the corporate return, there's
just less itemized expenses for the IRS
to question. So, it reduces your audit
risk greatly. And then one more thing
I'm curious about is something that I
hear get brought up every once in a
while is that you should create your own
personal LLC. And how does why should
someone create a personal LLC if you
think they should? And how does that go
about, you know, how do you go about
paying them a a personal salary if you
have, let's say, you have an S
corporation set up as your main
business? How do you go about, you know,
paying them paying the personal LLC, uh,
I guess you say a salary or
distributions? That's interesting. Um, a
personal LLC should only be utilized in
the event that you're conducting
business because an LLC in my mind is
set up for the purpose of limiting your
liability. If I'm going to go out there
and start selling uh t-shirts online and
god forbid the ink that I was using in
my printer for my t-shirts um causes
some type of skin rash for people and
they decide to sue my business, well, at
least I set it up in an LLC. I'm
protecting my personal assets, my
personal bank accounts from, you know,
creditors in the event of a lawsuit. But
if I'm establishing a personal LLC and I
have a separate S corporation, I'm not
really sure how the personal LLC would
be doing business in combination with
the S corporation. Maybe I'm taking a
distribution instead of taking a
distribution. I just want to park it in
an LLC. I guess you could do that. But
the way in which a personal LLC would be
able to help an S corporation would only
be if the personal LLC was producing any
type of services for that LLC because
then maybe I can um treat the
transaction as a marketing expense or a
consulting fee and that becomes income
to the LLC and maybe I'm going to take
different deductions inside of there.
How old are you now? I'm 31. 31. Yeah.
We like to end these off with two
questions. Yeah. I'll start and I'll
have Jack ask the second one, but give
us one more guiding principle for the
younger generation watching this.
20-year-old watching this, a little bit
lost in life. Give them a guiding
principle that they can kind of take
from this, derive from this to have for
the rest of their lives. Man, discipline
rewards you. It's so crazy. I was waking
up sometimes at 4 or 5:00 in the morning
thinking, why am I even doing this? Why
am I even waking up this early? Why am I
going and reading these books and
showing up to the gym and sitting in the
sauna and, you know, I'm just constantly
staring at all these other people that
are doing things that I want to do,
making more money than me, and then one
day when you look up, all of a sudden
you're doing the same things they're
doing. It's just crazy what happens when
you discipline yourself long enough over
long periods of time. How you get
rewarded, how people start to show up at
the gym or people start to show up for
you in your life or opportunities start
to open up. Um you get that big break,
you get that you get that next uh breath
of fresh air around an idea that you
had. And I've seen it happen so often
where people have deviated from the
things that were helping them and then
they wonder why they they're never able
to, you know, really have enjoyment in
their life. I think enjoyment happens
right on the other side of sacrifice and
discipline. And so don't give up. I know
you're working hard to the person that's
listening and watching this right now. I
know you're disciplining yourself. I
know it's exhausting, but stay still go
keep doing it because you're going to be
happy you did. And uh you know through
our videos we've been able to share the
legacies of a lot of the entrepreneurs
that are out there that have built like
massive companies and so we would like
to end our podcast talking about legacy.
So what is your legacy and how do you
want to be remembered? You know I want
to be remembered as someone who
simplified the entire industry of tax
and accounting. Um when you think of
Carlton Dennis you think of somebody who
wanted to help everyday taxpayers not
give their hard-earned money to the
government. somebody that was willing to
meet you where you were at from your
understanding um and was a friend to you
on the internet and was able to walk you
through the doors of of building wealth
uh with the information that I shared.
And to somebody that's aspiring to
become a tax professional, I hope that
I'm I'm carrying myself the right way
and that you view me as somebody that
you look up to and aspire to be like
because I remember what it was like when
I looked up to my mother and I aspired
to be just like her as a tax
professional. And so I'm carrying myself
every day for that young person that
looks at me as their hero. Beautiful,
beautiful, beautiful episode. Carlton,
for the people that aren't tapped in
with you yet, where can everybody find
you at? Carlton Dennis. all social media
platforms. Subscribe to our YouTube
channel. We'll continue to put out
knowledge there. How about if they want
to come work with you? If you guys want
to come work with me, tax alchemy.com.
You guys can visit our website at ww.tax
alchemy.com. I love it. Guys, thank you
for tuning in once again. Be sure to
like and subscribe for amazing content
with the most successful and the biggest
business owners in the entire world. And
if you're not a member yet of the number
one community for business owners, the
school of mentors, you can go down to
the link in the description to join to
get mentored from the multi-millionaire
and billionaire entrepreneurs that we
interview on this channel every single
week. Can't wait to see you on the
inside. With that being said, we'll see
you in the next episode.