What did A1 Garage Door [music] do in
revenue this past year?
>> Little north of 300 million. I love to
win, but I hate to lose more. [music]
There's no second place trophy. I guess
it's shake and bake, baby. If you're not
first, you're last.
>> I know you're a big reader. What are
like some of those must readad books?
>> There's so many good books. Here's one
thing I'll tell you guys. You don't need
to read a lot of books. You need to read
the same books a lot of times. There's a
book called It's a little book. Every
single one of the people in my business
[music] get that book.
>> Do you think everyone is cut out for
entrepreneurship?
>> No, very little. It's the old saying,
everybody wants the views. No one wants
to take the hype.
>> Is there a route where Gen Z should be
getting into home service businesses and
learning that trade?
>> I got a 23-year-old. [music] He bought
his house. He's got two cars paid off.
He's getting ready to buy an Airbnb
rental house. 23. No college debt.
>> Younger Tommy, what are three principles
[music] you would tell him on how to
grow the business that you have today?
>> Get into the right circles. You look at
your inner circle. If you don't get
inspired, it becomes a cage. I mean, if
me [music] and you died tomorrow and you
had one more guiding principle that you
could leave with the younger generation,
what would that be? I'd say the most
important lesson that you'll ever do in
[music] your life is
>> What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hognocks podcast.
I'm James and I'm here with Jack and
Josh and we are out in Phoenix, Arizona
with an incredible guest for you all,
the garage door mogul, the home service
mogul, Tommy Melo. It's great to be here
with you today, man.
>> Pleasure to be here. Thanks for coming
out, guys.
>> Let the people know right now, what did
A1 Garage Store do in revenue this past
year? little north of 300 million and uh
revenues for vanity, profits for sanity.
The main goal that I want people to
understand is you you can't take revenue
to the bank because you got to pay great
people. There's expenses. So, the bottom
line, we always shoot for over 20% and
we're murdering that goal. So,
>> this is going to be a masterclass for
everybody
>> hopefully.
>> But, but but but I want to I want to
touch on this though before we get into
it. $300 million from garage doors. The
young people think that they have to go
out and build the next Google. you. But
you did this in the home service
business.
>> Yeah. Well, listen, I was around the
right people. And I think it's not who
you know. It's not what you know, it's
who you know. And getting in the right
rooms and actually doing the work. I
think people overestimate what they
could do in one year and underestimate
what they could do in five. I've been
doing this for two decades. And I failed
over and over and over. I mean, if it
could happen, it did happen. I was
writing checks out of my equity line. I
got my mom to move out from Michigan in
2010. My stepdad was doing payroll. I
had people stealing from me. I had the
cops show up several times. I've had
cars flip over. I had a guy throw a
cigarette out of his window going to
Tucson. Whole car lit on fire. Uh if it
could happen, it did happen. Murphy's
law. But the the big thing is wake up
the next day and figure out what are you
going to do about it.
>> I want you to take me back to 2007 right
now. You're standing in a garage,
sweaty, exhausted. You're doing the
you're doing the jobs yourself in there.
What was that moment that clicked for
you that this is not going to be
another, you know, small home service
job? This is going to turn into a
nationwide empire. What what clicked in
your mind that day?
>> Well, I was actually predental and I
interned with a dentist and he said,
"You know, Tommy, before you go take
your DAT," and this was around the same
time I took 60 credits of biochemistry,
anatomy, physiology, organic, chem,
advanced calculus. And he goes, "There's
another guy that owns this practice. I'm
47 years old. I'm still in debt to my
ass." He goes, "If you want to do what
you want to do, you're going to school
for eight more years." He goes, "If I
were you, I'd learn about business. I'd
go take your GMAT, get a masters in
business because the guy that owns this
practice
is a business specialist." And that's
what changed for me. I said, "Huh, it's
a garage door company, but no one's
really taken the next steps to make it
like go buy all these companies
organically grow and just really become
a specialist. I'm not a generalist. The
only thing we do is garage doors. Uh I
know a lot of guys that are worth
hundreds of millions that mow lawns.
They started out mowing lawns, but then
they figured out the systems and just
the right software and how to hire the
right people to scale that business. So,
you could do this if you become a
specialist, you could do it in anything.
people do it owning selling candy. I
mean, Mr. Beast, that was a different
approach, but you could do it in
anything.
>> I think a lot of people and we've even
seen it kind of growing our own
businesses where we've tried to uh you
know, we have a really broad audience
and so even with our community and even
our agency, you know, sometimes we're
trying to service everybody and it and
it's just not working because there's no
clear promise, no clear avatar. And when
we kind of refined those, uh, we ended
up seeing way more success. And people
like to say the riches are in the
niches. Was there any time when you were
building A1 garage door that you were
like, "Hey, what if we go over and do
this? What if we go over and do this uh
and add this to the table or were you
always focused on garage doors the
entire time?"
>> Well, I made a lot of mistakes and I I
got basically not focused. And
my buddy once told me, I'm like, "Dude,
I'm a hustler. I like to put my eggs in
a lot of baskets." He goes, "What if you
put all your eggs in one basket for
three years? What if that basket
overflowed into other things?" And that
changed my life. Uh I think the quote I
came up with a few years ago is the
hustler had to die for the leader to be
born and go allin. And if you look at
Richard Branson, what he's done is he
goes builds companies top down. I had to
start your first company's bottom up.
You're the janitor. You're doing
payroll. You're doing inventory. A lot
of times you're going out fixing
problems. Then eventually you start
hiring people smarter than you and
specialists. And when you can hire top
down, the greatest people in the world
will build their own teams. And you got
to be able to delegate to elevate. And
so, yeah, there was a lot of times I
became unfocused. And I got great people
around me to be like, "Dude, quit
turning over there. Go back over here."
And, uh, it takes time and compound
interest could be working for you. And
now it's like there's not the same
problems. I don't worry about people
showing up to work sober. Uh, now it's
like, how can we go dominate in another
market, another area? And not to mention
we buy better than anybody because we
spend $70 million but just with our
manufacturer. So we've got buying power
and I think that that's the difference
is who could work out the best
negotiations with their vendors and who
could attract the most talent.
>> There there comes a point as a business
owner where you can't be worried about
the price of the toilet paper anymore.
You attribute a lot of your success to
acquiring great talent. What are those
things you look for not only when
acquiring businesses, but also just
acquiring talent onto your teams that
allow have allowed you to grow and just
build out their own divisions?
>> Number one is integrity. Uh they got to
be like good people that take care. I'm
from Michigan, Midwest, and I want great
people that tell a great story. They
smile all the time. I got to test number
one, would I work for them? Number two,
uh would I buy from them? Number three,
would my grandma, she passed away, but
she was uh a great woman. would my
grandma buy from them? And number four,
would I go have a beer with them? And
would I would I laugh the whole time?
And do they tell a great story? Are they
confident? And are they competitive? I
love people that used to play sports
because they practice. In football, we
we did two a days. We practiced twice a
day, five days a week to play one game.
We practiced 10 times more. Same thing
as Larry Fitzgerald. He's like, I caught
20 times more great catches on the
practice field than I did in the game,
but I was prepared. So, they got to fall
in love with the game and the practice
and just good, wholesome people that
represent the brand. They go recruit on
their days off. They're knocking on the
neighbor's door. They're getting the HOA
president. They're asking for three
reviews instead of one. They sit in
front when we're in training. You know,
those things, it's hard to come by. It's
hard to train those things. So, it's
just good human beings. We don't hire
salespeople. We just hire people that
smile a lot and do the right thing. One
of the things we always say is, "Here's
what you need to do. Here's what you
should do." Uh, if you were my mother,
my mom worked three jobs. I love my mom
more than anything on this planet.
Here's what I'd be doing for mom. And
you got to smile. Smile. Play with the
dog. Get to know the family. Diagnose
the person before the problem. These are
all important things when it really
comes down to it. And it's hard to find
that. But when you build a great
company, people come find you. We get
600 applicants per week. Uh, and we
right now next door there's 50 guys
training this month. Next month is
around Christmas. There's 50 more guys
coming next month. And then we're
planning on getting to 80 a month. Those
are just technicians and installers.
Then we got to hire management, CSRs,
dispatchers, warehouse staff. So we've
got about almost,00 people at this
point, my co-workers. The question is
how quick can we get to 2,000? When we
get to 2,000, how quick do we get to
4,000? And the doubles start to happen
quicker. You mentioned a quote that was
the hustler has to die in order for the
leader to be born. You mentioned that
your mom also worked three jobs. You
also prior to garage doors, you had a
couple hustles as well. You know, you
were doing some bartending, some other
things. When was that entrepreneurial
seed planted in you? Like was it kind of
in you from a young age? Did you always
have that work ethic or what was kind of
your turning point getting into
entrepreneurship from a young age?
>> Well, a couple things happened. I went
to a uh 5 years old. I went to a uh a
garage sale in Royal Oak, Michigan, and
I saw this CB radio. It was an old one,
but it was awesome. It had the police
channel microphone. I'm playing with
this thing. And my dad and I walked back
to the car, and he goes, "Uh, you wanted
that CB radio." I was like, "Yeah, Dad.
That thing was awesome." He's like, "Do
you remember how much it was?" He knew
how much it was. He's like, I go, "Yeah,
$20, Dad." He goes in his wallet. He
hands me five bucks. I go, "$5?" I mean,
I'm only 5 years old, but I still knew a
five is a five, a 20 is a 20. And he
goes, "Go offer her five." And I'm like,
"But she wants 20." I mean, 20 was on
the Scotch tape. And he goes, "Yeah, I
know. Go off for her five." And it was
like this slow walk. I keep looking back
at my dad and he's waving at me and he
goes, "Go get it." And I finally got
like the balls enough to go up to this
woman and I go, "Ma'am, I'm just
curious. You know, that's my dad over
there." and he's waving at her, smiling,
and would you consider taking $5 for
that radio? And she got down on one
knee, peel the scotch tape, took the $5
bill, and it was cool to get the radio,
but that was the day I realized I could
negotiate. I could build anything I
want. And when my mom was working three
jobs, she'd come home and her she had
blisters on her feet. She was a realtor.
She bartended and served tables. Just
did everything that she's like, "I'm not
moving out of this house. You guys are
going to stay in your school. I'll get
you in your sports. I'll let you do
whatever you want." Um, a great dad,
too. I'm not going to discredit
anything. My father's amazing, which I
know you guys had a good upbringing. Uh,
but when I saw her with blisters on her
feet, I said, I'm not going to ask my
mom for money. So, I started shoveling
snow and mowing lawns. When I was 12, I
started washing dishes under the table
because you had to be 13. When I started
making money, I was like, man,
I could make money on my own. And so it
started at a young age and it was
something where I don't have kids yet,
but when I do, I'm just wondering how do
I make them get forced into a corner
where they have to start providing for
themselves. I want to give them the
world, but I also want to give them that
gene or that quality that they'll just
go out and get it
like you guys all get it. Ultimately,
you were able to grow the company to
over 700 people. But a couple years ago,
you know, there's a story about where
you had one of your top performers and
you actually ended up firing that person
because they were a cancer to the
organization. And what happens is when
you have somebody who's a cancer in that
organization, if you don't cut it off,
it's going to spread quickly. But you
deemed and you granted a lot of respect
from the other people for doing that.
Could you tell us that story and the
lesson that you learned and having to
kind of, you know, like Jeff Bezos say,
sometimes you have to pay good, you
know, sometimes you have to pay people
to walk away. Yeah, it's really tough
especially when the business isn't doing
good and you got a top performer that's
great at sales and conversion rates.
But, uh, they don't respect their peers.
They don't respect their managers. And I
tried my best to save him. Uh, and this
hasn't happened once. This has happened
over a dozen times. A top producer
sometimes lets it go to their head and
they start being disrespectful, talking
down to people, not showing up to
meetings, rolling their eyes, and
everybody in the organization sees it.
And if you let it happen long enough,
they lose respect. So, you got to put a
hard stance on that stuff just because
they're a great performer. Uh, you know,
Curt Warner looked at Larry Fitzgerald
and he told him on the field, and this
is Larry's story. I know I talked about
him twice. I don't know why this is
coming to me right now, but he goes,
"I'm not going to pass the ball to you
anymore." He goes, "I don't trust you on
the field. You're the most talented guy
on the field, but guess what?
You do not run the right play. if it
says run 10 feet and break, you're
running eight and you can catch the ball
anywhere. And Larry said, we had this
conversation after practice in the
locker rooms. And that changed my life
forever. I had to have the what right
work ethic and respect for the game and
my peers. And that's important. This is
a team sport that we play. It's a
business. But we always pretend it's a
sport. People that show up for practice.
Kobe Bryant took a thousand shots. Tiger
Woods connected with a thousand golf
balls a day. It's not luck that they
became the best. And I'm reading, I'm
going to seminars. I'm literally working
on my future self. One of my quotes is,
"I'm the best I've ever been today, but
the worst I'll ever be, cuz tomorrow I'm
going to be 1% better." And so, the law
of the lid says, "I got to keep growing
or the company's not going to grow." And
that's important to me.
>> I feel like a lot of people watching
this, when they start to grow a company,
they start to have some success, they
get stuck in that technician role,
whereas the company's growing, I have
more responsibilities on my plate. I
have more to take care of. and I just
can't seem to find the time to actually
work on the business. What have you run
into in your experience on how to
actually fix that and how can someone
remove themselves and being a
technician?
>> Yeah. Well, read the E-Myth by Michael
Gerber. I mean, working on the business
is so important, but I think people
forget there's 168 hours in a week. You
sleep for 50, you work for 60, you work
out for five, you still got about 65
hours left, 55 hours left. Uh you could
watch your favorite Netflix video,
scroll a little less, which probably
isn't what you guys want. Uh and start
to figure out what can I do? If you were
to take a journal for two weeks and see
how many minimum wage things you're
doing in the business, like if you're
looking at emails, I don't remember the
last time I logged in to look at an
email. I've got an executive assistant
who runs circles around everybody. She's
hiring her own executive assistant. So
you got to be more deliberate with your
time. You got to plan your time. You got
to start out the day right. You got to
have a plan. Time block your day. And
you got to ask yourself, so I figured
out how much I make per hour and going
into a transaction,
how much is the company worth? And so
anything I could pay somebody under that
hour, but I can't pay somebody to say,
"Hey, Tommy really respects you and
values you and appreciates you." I have
to do that. I've got to run meetings. I
do the orientation. I do the seuite and
VP level interviews. I do the
acquisitions where I'm getting talking
to the other owner. So, yes, I could pay
somebody, but it's not the same. So, my
best time is telling people how much I
love them and care about them. It's
extracting the best out of them. I
always tell the guys are in orientation,
listen, I'm going to give you every
single opportunity you could get. I've
got a guy averaging 4,000 a week. Uh the
question is, do you love yourself enough
to accept it? And you know, the mass
drops down in the plane. Put it on
yourself first. Uh don't do this for
your family. Don't get in shape for your
family or your kids. Do it for you.
Everyone's like, "I do this for my
family. I do this for my mom." I'm like,
"What about if you did this for you?
What about if you said, "I'm worth it."
And a lot of people just we get raised
in a world where it's in comparison and
and we're trying to compare ourselves to
everybody. What if you just tried to be
the best version of you and you say,
"I'm worth it. I'm going to go all in
and I'm going to live the best life
ever." I wrote down six Fs. I used to
just care about how much money I had
coming from a broken family.
Generational curse of of uh my mom got
money from the church and help from the
church. We I have like 27 Bibles because
that was my Christmas and birthday
present. Uh but what about family and
friends and faith and getting in shape
and having fun and be, you know,
investing in your future self? So I
said, listen, I'm going to sacrifice
every relationship I have. I'm gonna
focus on work. But I let myself go. I
got a little chunky. I stopped really
going to church and praying. My buddies
all gave up on me. So, trust me, uh,
success comes at a cost. And now, when I
have a kid, I don't want Tommy was the
best garage door company in the world on
my casket. I wanted to say best dad
ever. So, I just the one prayer I have
is listen, I think every dad wants this
and every parent, but just let them be
healthy and let them have a great mind
to to go out there and find something
they love to do.
>> There was something that you said in in
that answer about how the task that you
focus on is with your people. You're on
the ground telling them how much you
appreciate them. You're the ones doing
the training, running the meetings. And
when we first came out to your
headquarters here, uh I remember when we
first walked up, I guess there was an
orientation. You had like 50 guys in a
room that were training and you were the
one leading the seminar, uh you
introduced the Hard Knox group to the to
the uh to the training staff and you
were just like, man, like I could just
see how even though they were like your
new recruits, like you were just so
proud that they were there. Um, and we
recently interviewed Gary Vee and he
said one of the most unscalable things
that you can do as a founder, but it's
going the ROI is so insane is like let's
say if you had, you know, taking time
out of your day to have dinner with
people that have been in your company
for three years plus. Uh, and so what,
you know, I just want, you know, how do
you emphasize for those out there that
like those are the moments that make or
break your company? Dealing with your
people. Why why do you do those things?
Well, if you're a great leader, you're
going to have people that will ride or
die for you. They'll follow you into the
pits of hell. And really what it shows
is, are you loyal to them? It's hard
because I used to know everybody by
name, their wives, I used to know their
birthdays. We created a software where I
communicate now with birthdays,
anniversaries, work anniversaries, and I
got scorecards for every single position
in this company with more than five
people. And if somebody's not doing
great, I send them a message. My
assistant Ashley, she'll video me and I
say, "Listen, man. I'm not calling you
out. I'm calling you up. I know what
your potential is. I know your family's
relying on you. And now I have their
wife's name in this software and their
kids' names." And I say, "Listen, if you
need help, if you want to go to that
next level, all you got to do is my
favorite three letters, ASK. So don't be
shy. You got to go for no. You got to
ask. and we're gonna find a way because
your family and you deserve more than
this. And here's where I think you
should be focusing right now and just
let let you know I care about you. I
want to be making this phone call. I
want to So, here's a question I had on
one of my podcasts recently. Do you want
to be respected or do you want to be
loved? And think about anybody that's
changed your life. I had coaches that
changed my life that made sure I had a
warm plate of food at night. Uh I they
called me out. They said, "If you're not
getting good grades, if you're missing
class, you're not going to play in the
game." And everybody who's made an
impact on my life gave it to me
straight. My cousin Rachel called me.
She's got a doctorate in uh basically
working out and physiology and anatomy.
And she goes, "Hey, Tommy, we're so
proud of you." This was like two and a
half years ago. She goes, "We love you."
She goes, "You're the biggest success in
our family." She goes, "Why don't you
love yourself?" I go, "What? What are
you talking about?" She goes, "Go in the
mirror right now. take off your shirt
and tell me if you're proud. She goes,
"You look blotchy. I'm guessing you're
drinking too much." And I took off my
shirt and I wanted to tell her, "You
don't know what it's like. You don't
know how hard I work." But tears came
out of my eyes and I was looking at
myself when I said, "I could do better."
And I should start respecting myself
enough to be a role model for the people
around me. And I had somebody in my life
that was willing to call me out. And
most people don't have that. Most people
are like, "Dude, what happened to the
old you? Let's go have a 12-pack, dude.
Let's Let's go smoke a bowl. What
happened to my friend? And here's the
deal. You I hang out with people. I got
a
a common future instead of a common
past.
>> I want to touch on this though because,
you know, you brought up how, you know,
you'll have some of those top performing
salespeople in the company. They'll have
some success. They let it go straight to
their head. What is just some of the
things that you've done as the founder
of this company, having 700 people work
for you? How do you stay grounded? What
like where does the humility come from?
The fact that you're still willing to
have that personalized touch with a lot
of the people in your company because
there's a lot of ego-driven businesses
which ends up killing most companies. So
what is it that you do on a regular
basis to keep you so grounded in the
company and let yourself know that hey
at the end of the day I'm you know even
though you've done something significant
you still have that mindset that hey I'm
still just insignificant. I'm I'm
another person just like everybody here.
>> Well I'm still just a little kid in my
own head. I mean I just bought Kid from
Night Rider. I got the original Adam
West Batmobile coming. I'm just a big
kid. I'm living the the childhood I
never lived. Right now, there's eight
people staying in my house because I
lived a really lonely childhood. But I I
wouldn't change it for the world. I'm
not complaining. I was very loved. Uh
and my dad taught me a lot about
competition. But uh you know, I'm still
the same kid I was from Sterling
Heights, Michigan. And uh I I'll never
let that get to my head. And money's
been great, but it's not fun being at
the top of the mountain alone. Like you
want to bring everybody with you and a
lot of people like we created $24
million on the first deal, there will be
100 on the next deal. And when you watch
their lives change, it it's like it's
not going to change really. The money is
not going to change my life really. I
mean, how much This sounds really
cliche, but I'm going to keep driving on
every one of those Fs I talked about.
Like I I'm not happy if I had eight
percent body fat. I go, how do I get to
six? If I'm not but I'm off balance, I
would say Dan Thurman wrote a book off
balance on purpose. You can't go all in
on everything. There's seasons of life,
but enough is never enough for me
because I'm a hunter and at at some
point it's just a game and it's like
what do I do? Just stop trying. Hey,
I've accomplished. I don't care where my
goal's at. The goalpost is always
moving. It's always moving.
Unfortunately, it's it's a blessing and
a curse because it's almost like a
plague. You guys have 18 million
followers and you're like, "Dude, if I
don't get to 30, if I don't get to 60,
if I don't get to 120 million, and
that's crazy. Some people would like do
whatever it takes to get a million and
we're relentless. There's no there's not
a lot to explain this except there's a
gene in our only 4% of people have it
and we're hunters, but we need farmers
around us. Uh, and it's in our DNA and
it's something that you just can't get
rid of.
>> What did your dad teach you about
competition?
>> Well, if I lost, I didn't get a trophy.
Uh, I was on the field and he's like,
"Boot it." We were playing soccer and I
just remember [laughter] and he's like,
"Come on." And he'd be on the sidelines
running with me along the sidelines and
if I wasn't trying, if I didn't come
prepared to the game, if I didn't show
up to practice, there was no like we had
a serious conversation afterwards. I
watched my dad, we'd play softball with
my uncles. He'd hit the ball over the
road and it was like we were playing
soccer when we went from fifth to sixth
grade and my dad, I'm watching all these
dads like their back pain. They're
trying to run and my dad's playing
goalie, kicking it from the other side
into the net and he's like, "We're going
to win this game." And uh that all my
cousins and uh uncles used to call it
TMU rules, Tom Melo University, because
he made up his own rules as we go to try
to win. But that's the one thing in my
family is like I've lost. I've won more
from losing. I I've I've learned more
from losing, but uh I'll tell you this.
I love to win, but I hate to lose more.
And that's the thing about our family is
like there's no second place trophies.
So I guess it's shake and bake, baby. If
you're not first, you're last.
>> So So it's safe to say in the Melo
household growing up, there were no
participate there were there were no
participation trophies.
>> We didn't get anything. And like there
was no glory. And I felt like I was
really letting my dad down. I mean, if
he watched me go bowling, I was in a
bowling league. And uh he's like, "We're
gonna get you lessons." I'm like, "Dad,
140 for seventh grade isn't bad." He's
like, "We could do better." [laughter]
>> And like everything about it was
>> I'm sure that stayed with you even in
the business, even in now.
>> I go hire the best of the best. I'm
getting to ready to work with Patrick,
but David, uh I'm getting ready to work,
you know, I I was the last guy to really
work one-on-one with Dan Martell. I pay
to play now. I want to get coached by
the best. And I don't really need to
learn about everything. I just need to
extract 80% of what they know, build a
lifelong connection, and then move on.
And I don't mind putting millions of
dollars into myself each year. And I had
to build that into a lot of people
around me. I'm like, my COO needs a
personal coach. He works with Cameron
Herald. We work with a lot of coaches
because we got to be elevating our game
all the time. And it's not just only
about finance and business. Uh, it's
about confidence. It's about breathing
techniques. It's about clearing your
mind. It's about journaling. It's about,
you know, I I go on the cold plunge four
days a week. I'd love to go seven.
That's discipline. I don't enjoy going
into the cold plunge. I'll be honest. I
kind of hate it, but it's like building
that mental fortitude to go in it. If
you start loving the cold plunge, it's
no longer discipline because you love to
do it. And that's one thing. If you talk
about motivation, sales, whatever you
do, discipline is a muscle that if you
flex enough, you know, David Gogggins,
uh, if you flex it enough, it becomes
easy. Everything in life becomes easier.
>> And I mean, just what you said, you
were, we would literally put millions of
dollars into yourself. And I know, you
know, people see like LeBron James at
the level that he operates, like he he
puts a million dollars into his body
every single year just so he can keep
operating at this level. But I mean
obviously we see all the books here in
the podcast studio. What and and I know
you're a big reader. What are like some
of those must readad books for everybody
out there?
>> Yeah, there's a book called Go for Know.
It's a little book. Every single one of
the people in my business get that book.
I go back to Dale Carnegie How to Win
Friends and Influence People. A must
readad. Uh I there's a lot of books. I
think Dan Martell I had business pretty
figured out but I didn't have it in my
personal life. So buy back your time.
Time is the one thing that we would
trade everything for at a certain age.
We give away everything we have when
we're when we're 70 years old for 10
years. And so, we were talking about
that before we started, but uh there's
so many good books. Unfortunately, all I
read is self-help. I want to start I
can't get into fiction. I I just I
probably should. I I'm not My left brain
is probably this big. Like my creative
side, it's all about like how do I get
better? How do I get stronger? How do I
learn from these people? Somebody took a
lifetime. Napoleon Hill, Think and Grow
Rich. Uh I I love The Ultimate Sales
Machine by Chad Holmes. Uh I love uh The
Richest Man of Babylon was an amazing
book. Uh but there there look here's one
thing I'll tell you guys.
You don't need to read a lot of books.
You need to read the same books a lot of
times. And in different chapters of your
life, they'll mean different things. And
you don't need to take everything out of
a book. take one to two things, apply
them, and then read it again because
there's so many life lessons in some of
those classics.
>> Yeah. I I mean, when I was 18, I tried
reading seven habits of highly effective
people by Steven Cvy and a and a lot,
you know, it's like Eisenhower, Matrix,
uh, and like, you know, begin with the
end in mind. And, you know, at 18, I
wasn't really grasping those concepts.
This past year, it was a game changer
for us as we've scaled to 50 team
members now at heart.
>> Well, he talks about what are people
going to say when you die. Imagine this.
You're walking in in that book. He says,
"You're going into your funeral. What
are people going to say about you?" And
that's a life living by design. So, I'm
building a whole life at 45. I'm 42.
What does 45 look like? I don't just
wake up 45 and everything I planned on
happens. It's it's a three-year process.
Where am I spending my time? Where am I
taking my kids? Who am I around? What
gets me excited? So, have you guys ever
just sat in a room and said in a dark
spot and say what am I where am I really
happy now? A lot of us say work. But
when you were 12 years old, you didn't
say I just man I want to work all the
time. So, you got to figure out what are
those things that get you excited that
you just love that like makes the day so
much better that puts a smile. Like if
I'm around my cousins and a few of my
buddies, there's certain nights where my
stomach hurts so bad from laughing so
hard and I can't even talk cuz I'm
laughing so hard. like that is like the
best time of my life. So, one of my
things I want to take like two groups of
four, go to Idaho, go golfing, go on the
golf simulator, go bowling, like go out
on the boat and like have this two-day
event, then we take the PJ back to
Phoenix and do it all again here. And
that happens twice a year. And so, I'm
doing it intentionally with a plan and
I'm manifesting all these things. I want
to go to Italy and spend a lot of time
there. If you look at this schnozer, I'm
obviously Italian. So, I want to go with
I got family out there. I want to do a
lot of things that most people don't
even comprehend. They don't even take
the time to slow down to wonder what
it's all for. Like, some people are
like, "Dude, I want what you did. I'm
going to start a business. I'm going to
go into home service. I want to do 100
million." I'm like, "Uh, well, do you
want kids?" And a lot of people are
like, "Yeah, I have kids." I'm like,
"You're not going to do what I did." You
You wouldn't be able to raise them
correctly. Number one. Number two, what
are you going to do with $100 million?
Tell me with the first you're going to
help out your parents. Awesome. What are
you going to do for them? Well, I'm
going to buy them a house. How much? 2
million. Okay, so there's two. What else
do you got? Well, I want two houses,
too. And I want these cars. Okay, so
you're at 8 million.
Uh why? So, I've always planned on
when's the next transaction. Like, I
have a goal. What am I chasing? Some
people are like, I'm just going to keep
running this business like a lifestyle
business. I'm like, well, how does
everybody in your company get the dream
that they want? How do they win? Because
you keep taking money out of the
business, they're getting a small bonus
every year, but they're still paying
ordinary income. When you take when
there's a transaction, you pay capital
gains, which is about 23%. And really,
the mega wealthy, the major game is tax
avoidance. So, I think everybody in the
company should be talking about that and
start thinking like an owner. We went
from uh
$12 million of IBIDA to 27.5 in 19
months because we did an equity
incentive program where people had a
stake in ownership of the business and
they were all running like owners and it
changed everything. Every
private equity company does what's
called profit units and they give equity
to the ma major people in the company.
We give that all the way down to the
technicians and installers. Every public
traded company does stock options and
that motivates people to think like an
owner and run like an owner. Uh but also
take care of clients because reputation
is everything. So when you're an owner,
you're picking up the garage, you're
cleaning your truck, you're handing cars
out at a gas station, you're recruiting
all the time, you're asking for, "Hey,
check us out on Next Door. Let's leave a
Facebook testimonial. Let's make sure we
do Google and Yelp. Let's make sure we
get the HOA president's name." What if
everybody thought like an owner? And
that's who you want to hire is people
that think like an owner that are
entrepreneurs that can make just as much
money but they don't want you're one in
10 to succeed in business. But if you
come to a company like ours, we got guys
making well into six figures with a
whole plan of retirement money with a
transaction that'll make them rich and
we just keep doing it over and over and
over again.
>> Do you think everyone is cut out for
entrepreneurship?
>> No, very little. They, you know, it's
the old saying, everybody wants the
views. No one wants to take the hike.
Very few people are capable of that
hike. You see, I look over at this other
mountain. I'm like, "Oh man, that's a
way bigger mountain." I go down to base
camp. I find out who's been to the top
of the mountain. That's a 7-day hike,
but there's a guy down there that's been
there in two days. I'm going to go ask
that guy for direction. My grandfather
and my dad would never ask for
directions. I'm like, "Please help me. I
need your help. I'm an honest person.
I've got a lot of humility. teach me how
to come to that up that mountain in two
days.
>> We're going to be right back to the
conversation with Tommy very soon. But I
want to touch on something that Tommy
said and what I noticed with all the
millionaires and billionaires that I
interview. Mentorship changed their
lives. Having access to successful
people in their fields,
multi-millionaires and billionaires, is
what enabled them to build out 8,
nfigure
businesses. Now, if you're watching this
right now, I want to give you access
right now to become a member of the
number one entrepreneur community and
network in the entire world. And inside
of this community known as the school of
mentors that I launched and built a year
ago to become the number one most
powerful entrepreneur [music] network in
the world, you get direct access to the
8 figure, nine figure, and billionaire
entrepreneurs I interview [music] on
this channel every week. But you don't
just join these calls and not do
anything. No, you literally ask your
specific questions to them. They give
you the answers. They give you the
blueprint on how to build companies, how
to start and scale these businesses, how
to invest and make your money work for
you. everything, [music] guys. The
people you see me interviewing, the
billionaires, the the people that are
selling companies for tens of millions
[music] and hundreds of millions of
dollars, they're mentoring you every
week on live calls. So that way, if you
have a bottleneck in your business, you
get it figured out and you begin to
scale those businesses to [music]
prosperity. So, all you have to do to
join is go down, click the link that is
in the description of this video to
become a member of the school of mentors
today. We can't wait to see you on the
inside. With that being said, let's get
back to the conversation. There was a
saying that I love and it was Walt
Disney was an incredible visionary but
he couldn't put the pieces together if
it wasn't for his brother
>> to help him be an integrator. And you
brought a COO into your business to help
you run things and you kind of sat back
as more as a visionary.
>> At what point should someone look to
bring in that integrator role into their
business?
>> Yeah. So there there's a great book by
uh Gino Wickman and Mark Wyinners uh
called Rocket Fuel and that's I think
what you're alluding to and everybody
should read that book. Integrators you
need right away. The first thing is an
executive assistant to give all the
stuff that you shouldn't be doing. The
next thing is find an amazing integrator
that could actually take your vision,
take your dream. You know, Walt Disney
saw what Disney World and Disneyland
would look like. He was flying over
Orlando when it was all swamp and he had
the vision but he didn't know how much
money was in the account or what a
caterpillar lift to pull dirt out was.
He didn't understand that. He was a
dreamer and a lot of us dream really big
but we have nobody to help us implement
those dreams and break it down into
small little actions. Now I had to be
both for a while but I'm not a great
integrator. I mean I get sidetracked.
Most entrepreneurs have ADHD. We our our
focus changes. So, I need somebody to
pull me back to reality. So, we've got
the north star of what we're doing. And
we're relentlessly prioritizing
objectives and what we're doing with
projects. And so, we got our top 10. And
we say, "What brings us to the north
star the quickest?" And so, we got I've
got 287 projects on that list. And I've
got a project manager and a COO that are
always like, "Dude,
that's important. You just came up with
another idea. Is that in your top 10?"
because you get sidetracked so easily.
And so what what's our north star? You
got to define that first. Where do you
want to go and why? And Simon Synick
talks a lot about it's got to be a big
why. You know, I heard somebody talking
about dreaming.
I I literally dream so big. Like I
always say, why not me? I look at Jeff
Basos and I'm like, that guy's
incredible. So is Elon Musk. Why not me?
Uh, I look at them when they were 42 and
I think I'm I'm a little ahead of them,
but I got to still continue to start
sprint. So, I'm at a slow jog right now
compared. There are like they're
lightning speed. They're on like jet
fuel. But I got to figure out how to
continue to to take this curve and go
like this, the hockey stick.
And it's not only in money because
literally some of the the best
billionaires you meet, I met a guy the
other day on a podcast. He goes, "Dude,
most billionaires I meet are they're so
unhappy. They're so ungrateful that
their lives have changed. Everyone want
that is around them is around them
because of their money. They're like,
"What can this guy do for me?" And you
know, Jim Carrey said, "I wish everybody
was filthy, rich, and famous so then
they would realize that's not the
answer." And everybody thinks it is
because we see Instagram, we see Tik
Tok, we're like, "We want that life."
But you don't know. you only see the
glimpses of the good part, but then
they're drug addicts. They they commit
suicide. There's so many bad things. So,
learning how to deal with the the money
is a different like like learning how to
make money is awesome. Learning how to
keep it is another thing. And then what
people are going to think about you are
people real around you. I don't really
feel like that because I'm still around
people I really trust. But a lot of
times people stop trusting everybody
around them when they start making a lot
of money. And that's no life to live. to
literally know if this friend's really
being serious, if they really want to
know you for you.
>> You've invested millions of dollars into
yourself, into your personal
development, and you've learned a
valuable lesson about a lot of different
business concepts. I want to talk about
branding for a second. Go back to kind
of the origin days. You used to put a
nice big picture of yourself on on on
the side of your cars. Um I I I want to
kind of talk about the lesson that you
learned about branding from I think one
of the first guys who was running one of
the biggest home service businesses in
the country.
>> Yeah.
>> What did you learn about branding and
consumer psychology and how they react
to that that really fascinated you?
>> You know, so this is uh this is our new
truck brand. It's it's this happened
when I was 30 million. And uh this is a
company I work with called Kick Charge.
And I didn't realize somebody buys a
Nike shirt for $300 because it's got a
stupid little Nike symbol on it. People
say when you succeed and you're at the
top of Mount Everest, what do you buy
yourself? A Rolex. You've done it.
The brand like you look at the best
brands in the world and they're just
printing money. And what does our brand
represent? Represents we're going to do
the job right the first time. We're
going to treat you like mom. We are not
the cheapest, but we are the best. It's
going to be somebody safe. You've got
two young daughters at home and a wife.
You're at work. We're going to come do
the job right. We're going to give a
real warranty and if there's any issues,
we're going to come out and put that
ahead of everything. We're going to go
nights, weekends, holidays. People want
to pay for peace of mind. They don't
want their garage door to break. You buy
the cheapest. I've never bought anything
in my life for the cheapest and it
worked for a long time. It's an
investment into my home and my family.
So, when I got rebranded,
uh, we changed our yard signs, our
billboards, the whole company's wrapped
interior. We believed in the brand and
the brand is so important and I meet a
lot of people that have stencils. It
says discount garage doors, discount air
conditioning. Who are you going to
attract?
You're going to It's like advertising on
Craigslist. You attract people, hey,
let's make a deal. I don't want to pay
for that. I want people to just say, "I
want peace of mind. I want you to be
safe. I want lifetime warranty. I want
to make sure the job's done right." And
when you own a home, you start
realizing, you know, the guy comes home,
uh, and there's a guy out there, he's
sweaty, his ass is hanging out, and
you're like, "Do you even have
insurance? What happens if you make a
mistake if you cut into a beam in my
ceiling?" Like, and I've seen a guy cut
into a beam and the top four started
like literally like you you get what you
pay for. So, we've invested a lot into
the brand and I've invested a lot into
my personal brand because out of the 50
guys that come in, 40 of them have
followed me, have found me. And people
don't work for a company, they work for
the leader and they work for, you know,
our COO and our CFO and our growth
officer Young and they go all in and
they want to work for a company that
cares, that actually puts them first and
says, "We've got a full-time dream
manager."
And the dream manager is supposed to
figure out your dreams and help you
figure out how to hit them quicker. But
the brand is everything. A1 from day
one, baby. The garage door is the number
one investment in your home. It's 40% of
your curb appeal. We trademark the
garage door as a smile of your home. And
I love garage doors more than anything.
I I really think like what do you you
want to know what someone does for fun?
Go in their garage. They're golf clubs
or kegarators. They're meat grinders.
You know, if they're they're a hunter.
It's just I love it because there's so
much to connect with the client on. And
I go in. One day I was in this garage
and we're talking over a decade ago and
I learned all about Bernie Sanders.
Wasn't a big fan, but I sat there and
listened and learned all about him and I
connected with this client. Another time
I was with a World War II vet. I took
the rest of the day off and sat with him
on his porch for four hours. He took out
his Purple Heart and just I was like,
"Man, you've done all this stuff for our
country. We're just going to take care
of you." I don't remember every job I
was at. I remember the ones that just
really made an impact on my life. And I
got to genuinely know people and build
friends. I got invited to Thanksgiving
dinner. I don't know how many people try
to make me Mormon.
>> You have to you have to take that offer.
By the way, you get invited to a
client's Thanksgiving dinner. You have
to go.
>> Yeah. Well, listen, this is way before
I'm engaged now to to breathe the love
of my life. But uh you know I guess the
best compliment ever was when a dad
would try to like introduce me to their
daughter when I'm in my 20s when I was
just like greasy guy in their garage
[laughter]
>> and they were just like honey come out
here. Come on.
>> Put on your dress on your dress.
[laughter]
>> Yeah. So a lot of times you know Mesa is
one of So Utah and Mesa Salt Lake City.
Uh I I moved to Arizona. And I went to a
mostly Mormon school and a lot of times
I was out in Gilbert and Mesa and they'd
be like, "Hey dude, you got to come to
church with us." And I'm like, "Well, I
already go to church." And by the way,
Mormon is a great religion. They're
great people. So are Canadians.
Canadians, Mormons, amazing people and
they buy.
>> You mentioned how 40 of the 50 people
that come into the office, they they
know you in some regard. A lot of the
times they're following you, they're
tapped into you, they've seen you
before. Um, why is it important for
business owners and for companies to put
that emphasis on their personal brand?
We were just talking about PayPal.
>> Yeah. So, PayPal uh just hired as a head
of C so a head co of content. This is
what you need to know. The job pays over
$200,000 a year. The mission is simple.
Make sure the CEO, Alex Chris, is
visible and consistently posting. This
is not about getting likes. It's about
building trust with the investors,
inspiring employees, and keeping PayPal
top of mind against competitors like
Apple Pay and Google Pay. PayPal is
proving that in the next few years,
including 2025 and 2026, the personal
brand of the leader as important, if not
more important than the brand of the
company itself. Here's the takeaway.
Visibility is no longer nice to have for
leaders. It is part of the business
strategy. If your audience cannot see
you, they will forget that you exist. If
they cannot see you often enough with
the right message, you shape. If they
can see you enough with the right
message, you shape how they think before
you even speak to them. The difference
between a CEO who shows up online and
who does not can be millions in talent
attraction, customer trust, and deal
flow. And so my main job is to go out
there and trust me, there's certain days
I don't necessarily have time to make
content. So what I did is I built the
content machine around me. So I'm like,
come into this meeting, obviously
there's sensitive material, clear it
with me before we post. But that's the
machine that I'm trying to build. Dan
Martell does a great job of it.
>> We were talking about earlier about uh
you know our generation and and you know
not everybody's cut out for
entrepreneurship. For those that are cut
out for entrepreneurship for the next
generation, do you see home service as
an avenue for them? Is there a route
where Gen Z should be getting into home
service businesses and learning that
trade? Um or is it like, hey, go the AI
route? What do you think?
>> Yeah. Well, they told everybody to go
into uh programming, into Python, Ruby
on Rails, into understanding all this
stuff. Now they're like, that's the
worst thing you can do cuz AI is going
to take that over. The next 5 to seven
years look really good for home service.
It's expected to quadruple in the next 5
years. There's there's people that are
building data centers. They need
electricians and air conditioning guys.
I would say it's the best thing you
could do. Listen, I was with a guy
yesterday. He's got a master's degree. I
got a master's degree. And I was like,
"Did did you learn a lot in your
master's degree?" He goes, "Dude, no."
Like, I would have went straight into
home service.
If somebody were to go into home
service, you could be I got a 23 year
old. He bought his house. He's got two
cars paid off. He's getting ready to buy
an Airbnb rental house. 23. No college
debt. And he's working with me. And he's
got equity in the company. And I'm not
saying if you're an entrepreneur, here's
the best lesson I could give you is go
learn somewhere. Be around the right
people. Learn how to do the right
meetings. Learn how to give teach people
how to practice. Learn how to recruit.
The problem is if you get good at a
trade, you don't understand what uh the
EMOD scores with the workers comp or
insurance. You don't understand how to
build leaders. You don't understand. So
you I really believe you should go get
an apprenticeship. You should go work
for somebody. you should do R&D, which
is rip off and duplicate everything they
know. Have a plan, make enough money
because most people are underfunded and
they go into debt when they start a
business. And they they know the trade,
but they don't know how to answer the
calls, book the calls, convert the
calls, how to pay the right taxes, tax
avoidance, accelerated depreciation.
They don't know what a adback it means.
They don't really know the the real
comprehension of what IBIDA is or
multiples, how they work. So, I don't
think somebody should just jump in at
19. Yes, you could do that. You could go
mow lawns like I did. I used to do water
conservation analysis and put drip
systems in. Made good money. I was
bringing in 30 grand a month. And then I
realized, look, I lost 10 years
learning. The first 10 years were
practice. Of my 20 years in this
business. So if I could have got the
right mentorship, I could have speeded
that up by a decade. When you think of
the home service businesses though, 90
plus% of the people that are making
millions in home service businesses,
it's like they're in that $3 to $6
million revenue range. What is the
biggest bottleneck that you see with
those companies that are kind of
preventing them from leaving that $3 to
$6 million revenue range that they're
in?
>> Well, they don't trust anybody and they
hire people dumber than them. They want
to be in control. They say, "If I hire
this guy, he could steal my company."
And they're not raising their lid and
they haven't created systems. The main
thing I see in a business is it's not
system oriented. So it's either there's
no system, the wrong system, or the
third is the worst. You build a great
system, but the system's not being
followed. So I think you got to read
Alvy's book, The Seven Power Contractor.
Build manual, standard operating
procedures, checklist,
and make sure everything has an expected
outcome. When there's problems all the
time, who do you call? The founder. I'm
going to fix it. and the owner becomes
the bottleneck and they'll never scale
past themselves. So, when you go out and
create a team and hire the right people
and start getting out of the way, I
mean, I'm out of town a lot. I'm
learning. I'm investing in my people.
I'm going to visiting markets and when I
go out of town, guess what happens? We
set a record. I'd love to say when I'm
in town, we're always setting in town or
out of town, we're still setting
records, but I got to get the hell out
of the way. Some people are like, "Dude,
we love it when you leave because we
want to impress you. We want to show you
that we could do this without you." And
that takes a lot of trust. The one thing
in business you need is you need to be
able to trust the people around you. If
you don't have that, you don't have
anything.
>> I love and one thing that you you said
earlier that really spoke to me is the
fact that the first 10 years of your
business, you were just learning. And I
feel like if I could talk to my younger
self, I dropped out of school, went
full-time into entrepreneurship, and was
just literally eating [ __ ] for years.
And I if I could just talk to my younger
self, I'd be like, go work in a business
and go learn the tools of the trade and
learn on someone else's dime and get
paid while you're doing it. So I'm
curious if you could talk to younger
Tommy, you're 26 years old, starting off
in the business, what are three
principles you would tell him on how to
grow the business that you have today?
>> Yeah. Well, who not how? Be around the
right people. Uh get into the right
circles. You look at your inner circle.
If you don't get inspired, it becomes a
cage. number one, like you've got to be
willing to ask and go for no and not be
afraid of rejection. Don't care about
being liked because you're going to be
misunderstood is what I tell young
Tommy. I'd also tell him, uh, readers
are leaders. Like, devour books and make
sure you're reading the right books. And
like I said earlier, hang out with the
the people in your future instead of
your past. And be very careful who you
let in because most people have the
wrong intentions. I'd say the most
important lesson that you'll ever do in
your life is be around the right
partner, which is for you guys hopefully
a wife. Some of you guys maybe a
husband, but uh no, I'm kidding.
[laughter] But uh
>> no dice e
>> either way. Either way, but uh
[clears throat]
yeah, and look, at the
end of the day, like hire mentors and
don't be afraid. I was writing Al Levy,
my first mentor in 2017, the first
really great mentor other than my
parents. I was writing checks out of an
equity line. And he always reminds me of
this. I mean, this is a personal
checkbook, not a business checkbook, you
know, that you flip open. And the reason
I had to apply everything he taught me
is because I didn't have any other
choice. And he'd be like this, Tommy, I
want you to stop reading books. I want
you to apply these simple principles.
We're going to get the manuals done.
We're going to fill out the checklists,
and you have to do this perfectly, and
then you could do anything you want. and
that set me free because we built SOPs.
Those are the important things. And I'd
say, listen, along the way, uh, take
care of yourself. Don't forget how great
you feel when you work out. And don't
forget you're a role model for everybody
around you. And don't think people don't
look up to you because they do. And if
they if you say it's okay to have a
messy desk and park in the handicap spot
and not pick up trash in the in the
hallway or or on the parking lot, you
say it's okay for everybody to do that.
to always be act like somebody's
watching whatever you're doing. Act like
somebody's always around. And so what I
do sometimes I think grandma's watching
me all the time and I want to make her
proud in heaven.
>> When I first walked in here, one of the
first things that I noticed was this
picture of you. It looks like you were
baptized a couple years ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Why did you get baptized?
>> Well, I uh this is a hard story. Uh you
know, I've always been pretty close to
God, but my parents don't remember if
they got me baptized, so I thought it
was pretty important. I mean, I I'm a
believer in the Bible, but my dad uh
during CO went through some serious hard
times. And I was taking him from
hospital to hospital and and I don't you
can't imagine what this is like because
like my dad's a legend in my eyes. When
I was in second grade, this guy wanted
to be Superman. This guy wanted to be
Batman. I said, "I want to be my dad."
And so my sister called me and said,
"Hey, dad's going to die today." and he
was on getting ready to put on a respir
respiratory system and his oxygen fell
below 60.
And I just remember I fell down to my
knees and I started balling and I'm
driving. I'm I'm driving like a maniac
to get to the hospital and I'm praying
and I'm pounding my arms on the steering
wheel. I'm just like I prayed and I
said, "Jesus, if you let my dad live,
I'll always tell everybody that you you
gave me every success. Every stage I'm
on, I'm going to tell people about you
and I'll become a better son." I didn't
spend enough time with dad. I got too
wrapped around the business. I didn't
make quality time. Now, we shoot pool
every Sunday. So, I take his hand
and he barely looks at me and says, "I'm
not ready to go."
And um by the way, I was in the ICU. I
was buying them breakfast, lunch, and
dinner. So they let me in the ICU. I
became their friend. I sat down with
them for hours and talked to the nurses
and doctors. I wanted to be led in. I
wanted as much time as I could get. I
thought he was going to die. Then he was
on oxygen. He he carried a tank around.
And one day I see him and I'm like,
"Dad, where's your oxygen?" I run out of
the car. He's like, "God healed me." And
anyway, a year and a half later, I'm in
my office and this guy calls me up out
of the blue and he goes, "Tommy, uh,
listen, this is going to sound really
weird. No one knew this story. Nobody. I
never told this story." He goes, "Did
you make a deal with Jesus?"
And I'm not kidding. The hair on the
back of my neck stood up. I got
goosebumps. I'm like, "Who are you? What
is this about?" He goes, "Listen, I just
God came to me." And he said, "I I
pictured you on your hands and knees
praying and whatever deal you made,
remember to keep your promise because
just as quick as he gave it to you, he
could take it away." And I was like,
"Oh, man." I was on stage next week. I'm
like, I want to talk about Jesus. You
know, I'm not going to be blind about my
faith. And that's really important to
me. I go to Impact Church. Uh, Pastor
Travis is an amazing guy. We've managed
to be able to donate to the church. not
near as much as I should and could and
will, but uh time's important, too. So,
that's just that was important to me. Me
and Bri did it together. And that was a
rebirth in in the name of Jesus. I mean,
uh and that's important to me because I
know where I'm going. And guess what?
I'm building two beautiful homes. Uh you
know where I really want to build a
house forever is in heaven. So,
>> I love that. I want to build a house in
heaven forever. Well, we we like to end
these podcasts off with two last
questions for our guests, starting with
me and then Jack will cap us off, but
Tommy, if me and you died tomorrow and
you had one more guiding principle that
you could leave with the younger
generation, what would that be?
>> I guess on the the subject I was on is,
you know, when you become 18, you don't
spend as much time with the people that
took care of you. uh that that mean
everything to you and tomorrow's not
promised is along the success just
remember where you came from remember
the people your grandma your
grandparents your favorite uncle and
most importantly your parents and and
even today I got a lot of work to do is
you know your parents just want to know
you're doing good I'm healthy I love you
and things are going good and if you
could just make that moment to let them
know that at least a a couple times a
week. And one other thing is there's a
lot of people right now taking care of
me. I mean, there's meetings going on
next door is every once in a while just
remember gratitude. Uh, you know, I can
move all my fingers. I wake up with
energy. Uh, there's other people.
There's seven billion other people.
There's a lot more than that, but seven
billion people that would don't have a
house. They would trade their life. They
would trade everything to have my live
in my shoes for a year. So just
gratitude and just remember where you
came from because sometimes you get so
caught up and saying it's not enough.
It's not enough. It's not enough. Uh
sometimes you got to just go
this is amazing. I live the best life. I
travel. I do the things I love. I'm
loved. And I got great people. I got
Finnegan and Huckleberry, my two dogs
that are my best friends other, you
know, for canines. And I just live the
best life ever. And I think sometimes
people live in this this moment of just
they're not enough. They're not enough.
They're not enough. And if you had to
live one day in somebody's shoes in
another continent, you'd say, "Man, I
live the best life ever."
>> And Tommy, on that point, uh you alluded
to it a little bit earlier, but uh when
it's all said and done, how do you want
to be remembered?
>> Yeah. Number one,
uh if I were to die tomorrow, I hope the
the uh funeral is outside and nobody's
wearing black. There's a lot of people
that said when Tommy shook my hand and
said he was going to do something, he
always did it. He was the most curious
person in the world. He was always
learning, never cocky. He was confident,
not cocky. There's a big difference. Uh
he gave more than he took. And most of
all,
uh not not yet, but I'm manifesting he
was the best dad in the world. and he
treated his kids
with respect and taught them everything.
He was hard but fair and uh he wanted to
pass the torch and make them 10 times
better than he ever was.
>> Beautiful answer and beautiful episode.
For everybody watching right now, be
sure to like and subscribe for amazing
content we've got coming every week cuz
we're bringing you guys the most
incredible business owners just like
Tommy Melo every single week here on the
Hardnox podcast. Tommy, where can
everybody find you on social media?
>> Yeah, on Instagram, official Tommy Melo.
Uh, here's what I'll do. If you comment
hard knocks on my Instagram, you don't
have to like me. I'll give you guys a
guide on how to hire. I think the
hardest part is getting talent. And
listen, this isn't about me getting
likes. I took 10 days of deep, deep
research, not chatbt [ __ ] to put this
together. And it's about 80 pages. So,
if you go on official Tommy Melo on
Instagram, I'll send that to you. U and
Tommy Melo.com, you can find out a lot
more. I love it. Well, we appreciate
you, Tommy, being here. And lastly, for
everybody watching right now, guys, if
you go down and click the link in the
description of this video, you can get
access to and join the number one
entrepreneur community and network in
the entire world with over 6,000
members. They get to learn every week
from eight, nine, and 10 figureure
entrepreneurs that we have on our
channel every single week. So, we can't
wait to see you on the inside of the
School of Mentors. With that being said,
we'll see you in the next episode.
