HOW DEBT CAN GENERATE INCOME -ROBERT KIYOSAKI
Channel: The Rich Dad Channel
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dN5qHjnd_xk

[Upbeat music fades in]

Alexandra: Okay I'm here with Alexandra and we're doing another Millennial Money. And very excited about this program so thank you for tuning in. This will be one of 10 and we don't know which order they're comin' in so. What are some of your questions when people say get out of debt, what comes to your mind?

Alexandra: When people say get out of debt...

Robert Kiyosaki: Here and I have these resources and I've gone to your seminars, I understand that debt can be powerful and it can be used in a good way and it can generate you money.

Robert Kiyosaki: And the other thing about debt, there's good debt and bad debt.

Robert Kiyosaki: So this is gonna be the lesson today, is there's good debt and bad debt.

Robert Kiyosaki: And if you only have bad debt, which I classify student loan debt as bad debt.

Robert Kiyosaki: The main reason it's bad debt is because it's the worst possible type of debt.

Robert Kiyosaki: So if you're a student, you shouldn't take on student loan debt unless you absolutely 100% guaranteed that you will commit to graduating.

Robert Kiyosaki: So that's why for your generation, student loan debt I would say is possibly one of the most important things to avoid.

Robert Kiyosaki: So as far as the subject of debt, there's good debt and bad debt. Again it goes back to the financial statement, income, expense, asset, liability. So debt falls in here.

Robert Kiyosaki: So I'll review, let's say I'm gonna buy you know everybody says I'm gonna buy a house. And everybody says my house is an asset. That's not true, your house is a liability. I don't care if you put no debt on it or not, a house is a liability. Same as if you have a car. A car is a liability.

Robert Kiyosaki: And the reason for that is as we've talked about earlier, the six words that are basics of financial education, financial intelligence, income, expense, asset, liability. And the two other words are cash flow.

Robert Kiyosaki: So when you look at the average person to have a job, money comes in here, they pay for their house, and the money goes to a bank, through a mortgage, so it's not an asset because the cash is flowing out, so it's a liability.

Robert Kiyosaki: So the definition of liability, does it take money from your pocket? And for an asset does it put money in your pocket?

Robert Kiyosaki: So when I have a rental property here, it puts money in my pocket. So if I live in the house it's a liability because even if I have no debt on it, I still have taxes, depreciation, repairs and upkeep, insurance and all this. When I rent a property, I've done a good job buying it and structuring it, every month it sends me money.

Robert Kiyosaki: So I started off when I was 25, I had a little one bedroom condo and it put 25 bucks in my pocket, it was a start. So this was good debt, you see, the debt also went out and paid but it also put $25 in my pocket. So net, net, I was making money from my little house.

Robert Kiyosaki: So today my wife and I own 6,500 of 'em. And every month 6,500 houses put money in my pocket, my people who live in 'em love me and all this because they have a place to live. But all of this comes from debt. So we don't, we have they're 100% financed there, it's all debt. So this is good debt.

Robert Kiyosaki: And what makes it good debt is are the two most important words, cash flow. Does that make sense to you?

Alexandra: Yeah.

Robert Kiyosaki: Any comments on this?

Alexandra: So numerous people my age actually think debt is horrible and you just showed us a perfect example of cash flow and how debt can generate income. And many entrepreneurs use this formula to make money on a day-to-day basis.

Robert Kiyosaki: So what most people do is they have student loan debt, SL, and that debt is going out this way. You know it doesn't put any money in your pocket. You can say well I have a job, well there's still you working for it. So I don't work for any of this money here, I do this job once, set the deal up. Every year I add more and more and more in it, I'm borrowing money from here, it's coming here, and going this way. So the debt is putting money in my pocket and bad debt is taking money from my pocket.

Robert Kiyosaki: So the problem is, if you're gonna use debt you've got to be much smarter than this person here. You've got to be very, very smart. That's why I took real estate classes when I was 25 and I've never stopped taking real estate classes. Because you buy a piece of real estate and you make a mistake, this turns into a liability. And this, if I get, the renter leaves the place, this goes here that fast and the cash flows that way. And it's going out of my pocket.

Robert Kiyosaki: So it has nothing to do with real estate, nothing to do with the car, that there was student loan. It has to do with these two words here. So good debt again, is debt when I borrow for this and it puts money in my pocket.

Robert Kiyosaki: If I had a car and I borrowed money from it and somebody rented from me as an Uber driver or something and I put money in my pocket it would be an asset. My wife and I have a boat and you know most boats lose money but our boat makes money because it's in a charter, you know people rent my boat all the time.

Robert Kiyosaki: So it has nothing to do whether it's a boat, student loan debt, a house, a car, or whatever. It has to do with these two words here.

Robert Kiyosaki: And so most of the time, you know you've had accounting classes, they don't talk much about this do they?

Alexandra: This is something they've never mentioned to me in college.

Robert Kiyosaki: Why is that you think?

Alexandra: Like you mentioned before, I mean, there's people that are actually teaching students something that they don't apply in their daily life, something that they barely have knowledge about and they only learned through a textbook.

Robert Kiyosaki: But you have, you've taken accounting classes right?

Alexandra: Yeah exactly, I did.

Robert Kiyosaki: You made A's in it?

Alexandra: Well I did finally get a high grade the second time around but that was because I had a real accountant teaching me the real applications of accounting. As opposed to a fake teacher, right? So your advisor, Tom Wheelwright taught me in one hour what I could have learned the entire semester with this one teacher that wasn't even an accountant in his real life.

Robert Kiyosaki: A big lesson for you is that it's nothing to do with the house, the car, the student loan, it has to do with where's the cash flowing. If the cash is flowing in to your income statement, into your pocket, it's an asset, it's good debt. But if it's taking money from your pocket, it's bad debt. About debt, there's good debt and bad debt. Any comments on that?

Alexandra: Well I think just like Trump, you know how to apply the rules of debt and he calls himself the king of debt, right?

Robert Kiyosaki: If you're gonna be successful at whether you're employee or entrepreneur, you've got to control the direction of your cash flow. So like most people here, we've talked about earlier, they got a job and the cash flows out here, it goes to the government, called taxes. Trump doesn't do this, I don't do this, legally. The reason's 'cause we're entrepreneurs, not employees. Employees have this, entrepreneurs don't. Because it's a type of asset.

Robert Kiyosaki: So what would you like to say to the young millennials listening to this?

Alexandra: I'd say don't be afraid of debt and if you know how to use it, use it.

Robert Kiyosaki: Good debt puts--

Alexandra: Money in your pocket.

Robert Kiyosaki: Could a credit card be good debt?

Alexandra: Well it just depends what you spend the money on, right? So if you spent it on something that's gonna produce income for you, like an asset then it's good debt but if you spend it on let's say a jacket that you wanted from Burberry, then it's not.

Robert Kiyosaki: First property there, it was in Maui, Hawaii, the 1970s. I bought it with a credit card.

Alexandra: Wow.

Robert Kiyosaki: Property was $18,000 my first, but I've taken several real estate classes and so I knew what to look for, I found this one property. It took a long time, when I found it, I just broke out my credit card and bought it and it put $25 in my pocket. It went from this little, janky little thing. This was years ago, $25. It was good debt, I wish I had never sold it. I don't, you know it was a big mistake to sell it because today it's probably worth four or 500,000 and that's a whole 'nother story. That's why I don't flip properties, you know, I don't like to do that stuff.

Robert Kiyosaki: So anything else, so good debt, what?

Alexandra: Money in your pocket.

Robert Kiyosaki: And bad debt what?

Alexandra: Takes money out of your pocket.

Robert Kiyosaki: That's all there is.

Alexandra: Yeah.

Robert Kiyosaki: Thank you.
