We have an incredible guest for you all
today. The man that invented your
childhood.
>> I created several Nickelodeon cartoons
back in the early 2000s. One's called
The Fairly Odd Parents. You guys ever
heard of that show? That was that that
I created a show called Danny Phantom.
>> How do you even put yourself in a
position to pitch Nickelodeon?
>> Really was a matter of connections cuz
you can make these people's lives
easier. They want to know who you are.
Who's the guy over there who's doing all
the stuff that we don't have to ask him
to do?
>> You can't go viral once, okay, by
chance.
>> Anybody can do that.
>> But to do it consistently, there's a
formula. Is there a formula to creating
a great show?
>> There absolutely is. It's not the exact
same formula all the time, but it the
elements are always there.
>> I always love talking to Christians that
are successful and especially for
>> maybe one will come in here someday.
>> I got more satisfaction out of buying
that person a car and buying myself a
car to see their eyes light up to see
the impossible come true for them.
They've been praying for something like
that and you can make that happen.
>> You got all these blessings and you're
almost acting as a vessel to give that
to others.
>> Yeah. So, Butch, if if me and you died
tomorrow, what would your last message
to the younger generation be?
>> Wow.
>> What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we have an incredible
guest for you all today. Mr. Butch
Hartman, as I like to call, the man that
invented your childhood. Butch created
not one but two of the greatest
childhood shows of all time. And I think
probably three or four shows in total.
How many shows in total?
>> Well, at Nickelodeon, there were four
shows. Four shows in total. Yeah.
>> Those two shows that changed your life
and changed everything for you. What
shows did you create for the people that
don't know?
>> Yeah. Well, first of all, I'm glad to be
here with three Jays. It's easy to
remember. Like I Hey, Jay. Jay. Jay. You
guys are all Jay's. That's good. Uh, I
created um several Nickelodeon cartoons
back in the early 2000s. One's called
The Fairly Odd Parents. You guys ever
heard of that show? That was that
show. Then I created a show called Danny
Phantom, which came out right after
Fairly Odd Parents. And then you guys
might have been a little bit too old,
but my third show was called Tough
Puppy. Came out in the late uh 2000s.
And then uh around uh 2014, I created a
show called Bunson is a Beast. And so
those four shows on Nickelodeon. And um
yeah, that was a blast to do. And now I
I have my own company, my own animation
uh production company now. And we're
doing a bunch of other stuff now. So
it's really a blast. And
>> And if I'm not mistaken, you actually
did some of the the voice narration on
some of those shows as well, right?
Well, I did I I I can do voices for
sure, but uh when I got my own show, uh
I wanted to hire actually people that's
all they do, professional stuff. So,
they I hired some of the best voice
actors in the business. So, they uh
>> The reason why I asked is because before
we get into the podcast, we need to
confirm that it's really you and that
it's your show. So, we we need to hear
something real.
>> Oh, wait. Okay. So, I should do probably
Here's the thing. I don't do the voice
of Mr. Crocker, but I can imitate the
voice. We got to hear it. We got to hear
>> It's like uh Well, let's see. Water a
wooden wooden table. This can only be
THE WORK OF PARAGON PARENTS. I MEAN, I
CAN
>> THERE YOU GO. I I don't do that on all
the time, but I I can imitate that guy.
Carlos Ellis Raki is the originator of
that voice. He's great.
>> I love it. Where I want to get things
started off and and we'll unpack
everything is is is is when you got the
green light for the Fairly Odd Parents
and and you knew that, you know, at the
time your idea was going to become such
a global phenomenon. Like, what was that
moment like when you first initially got
that green light on this show? What was
going through your mind? Let's go right
back to that moment when you got the
green light for your first big hit, The
Fairly Odd Parent.
>> Yeah, man. Thank you. How old are you?
>> 23.
>> 20. You're only 23. The guy's only He's
only 23. And you're what? You like 23
and a half?
>> I'm 25.
>> 25. So old. And you?
>> 27.
>> Great. Great. Great ages to be. Uh I was
about uh 35 when I got my green light
for the Fairly Odd Parents. But prior to
that, I'd worked in the animation
industry for about 15 years, about 11
years, actually. And I um I'm from
Michigan originally, drew cartoons. See,
when I grew up, all we had were three
channels on TV. There was no internet.
There was no way of really um I guess
you could find out things obviously
through books and magazines and the news
and all that, but it was a lot harder to
find out things. And so, I didn't know
where I was going to make a living. I
thought, I want to do cartoons my whole
life, but how am I going to do this? A
kid in Michigan, how do you do that? How
do you get into the television? You
know, how do you get in there? And so,
um I knew there was a school in
California called, uh Cal Arts, which is
an animation school. ended up going to
that school and I just learned from the
other students. I I immersed myself in
what I loved and got around um all these
people. Now, I thought I was good. I
thought I was talented in my hometown,
but it's almost like being a pro
baseball or football player. You think
you're good till you get into the major
leagues and everybody's unbelievably
amazing. And so, I really had to either
decide, am I going to step up my game
and stay or am I going to go back home?
So, I got into the animation industry
and uh through many years of practice
and different jobs, I ended up at
Nickelodeon. Finally had an idea sell.
It was called The Fairly Odd Parents,
but it was only one cartoon. They bought
one cartoon for me. It was a short, the
first episode. And uh so what you do is
you pour all your all of your, you know,
uh expertise you have at the time into
that one story, that one episode. And
fortunately, they liked it. And so it
was in um uh January of 2000 they said
we're gonna make your show not just one
show but six half hours
>> and at that point you're like six half
hours. This is great. That means I'll be
working for the next year. All you're
worried about at that point is like a
paycheck. Um you said global phenomenon.
Nobody knows if it's going to be a
phenomenon ever. You're just like I'm
going to get my show made. Let's just do
this. I I get to draw every day. Uh now
in my heart I knew it was going to be
good but I knew I had to work really
hard. I had to make funny characters
that people wanted to watch. multiple
episodes. Uh I made the first six half
hours a very small crew of people
writing, drawing, all that stuff. And
then you're kind of dependent at that
time on the studio putting it out. Uh
there was no social media of any kind. I
was complet I had no control over me.
There was no extra advertising on my end
that I could do. I had to make sure that
network was airing it, putting it out,
all that type of stuff. So fortunately,
they did. And back then, uh the show did
really well. We had a thing called
ratings. Ever heard of ratings? TV
rating, that kind of stuff. I was making
sure. I don't know if you guys knew
that. Um,
>> but uh, back then a good show on
Nickelodeon at the time would get like a
five rating.
>> Fairly apparent was getting like eights
and nines. We're getting like
>> at the time, how many viewers would like
a good show be doing, baby, per se?
>> Yeah, like an eight or nine rating meant
you were getting like maybe
uh 10 million people watching your show
at any time. So, um,
>> those live viewers or
>> Well, they were people like, well, it
was really weird back then because they
would like put the show out and then
they would have to do an average of
people that were watching. Um, how many
people subscribed to Nickelodeon and how
many people were watching this
particular show at this particular time
out of all the people that have
Nickelodeon, who was watching what at
what time. It's all a way they averaged
it out. And so, not really privy to all
that information. Uh, but I would
know that they would say, "Hey, your
show's doing great." They'd slide the
numbers across to me. You're like,
"Great. We're going to make more." And
so once once they start ordering more
episodes, instead of going, hey, we only
want six half hours, now we want 10 half
hours. Now we want 20 half hours. Now
your time of employment is going up to
three, four, five years.
>> But now in order to turn that out, in
order to hit that product demand, you
have to like now hire more people. Now
your crew is getting bigger. Uh they're
putting you on the network more.
>> You know, we would beat Spongebob all
the time. I mean, Spongebob was the
number one show. I always say Spongebob
was the Mickey Mouse. We were We were
the Donald Duck, you know. But I'll take
Donald Duck any day because Donald
Duck's pretty popular, right? Donald
Duck's popular, right?
>> You guys have heard of Donald Duck,
right? Absolutely.
>> Let's be very clear. Donald Duck.
>> I I sound like him right now.
>> Hey, let's be very clear. Donald Duck
has made Disney billions over the years.
>> Absolutely. And it's weird cuz like
Mickey Mouse has no shirt and pants, but
Donald Duck has shirt, no pants. It's
really weird how they hang out together,
you would think. So, um, but we would do
really well. We would uh there was even
times on the CNN little crawl at the
bottom of the news. I guess all the
extra news it would say fairly out
parents beat Spongebob in the radio. We
would get things like that all the time
which was really fun. But um you're
really just hoping the audience loves
it. You're excited when they do. Then
you start seeing demand. You know, we
want to Yeah. Butch, can you give us a
Christmas special? Can you give us a
Halloween special? Can you give us a,
you know, whatever? Can you add on to
the show you're already doing? You know,
can you do a movie for us? That type of
stuff. So that's really exciting. And
those opportunities don't come around
all the time. You know, a lot of shows
out there, but they don't get extra
stuff made all the time. They'll get
like one, two seasons, that's it. But
Fairly Odd Parents was very fortunate.
We did about 18 years on Nickelodeon.
>> So, I'm sorry. I know you got to go. I
just want to had to ask this real quick.
How do you even put yourself in a
position to pitch Nickelodeon? I mean, I
know that you mentioned that you started
off working at the network, but like a
lot of people, especially in this, you
know, you're in the idea business,
right? And eventually you hope to one
day get something approved. you know,
first, how do you even put yourself in a
position to present to Nicol Loading the
idea of a show and then also how
competitive is that process?
>> Totally great question. It's like uh you
know, everyone thinks they can do a show
or sell a product or, you know, got get
onto a sports team or whatever, but
until you get that opportunity, until
you're standing in the room with people,
you know, you don't even know. So, how
do you get into that room? Well, my and
my way was I I went to college, like I
said, the art school, and then I just
started getting jobs in the animation
industry, which is a whole process. You
walk in back in those days, you'd walk
in with a portfolio, like a big book
with all your drawings in it, sit at a
desk like this, all the executives, and
you're sitting there as they look
through your artwork and like, is he
talented enough for us to hire him? And
fortunately for me, I got hired because
I I could actually draw a little bit.
And so I it's just the more but the more
um you get job number one, you meet this
amount of people. You get job number
two, you meet more people. Really was a
matter of connections. I would get
different jobs, but every job I got, I
made sure it was a different job. I
didn't just do character design. I did
backgrounds and I did props and I did
storyboards and I made sure I could do
every aspect of animation. So by the
time I got fairly odd parents, I was
very wellrounded in what my my
profession was. But then along all along
the way, I was meeting high level
executives because you can make these
people's lives easier. They want to know
who you are. It's like, who's the guy
who was making all this stuff? Who who's
the guy over there who's doing all the
stuff that we don't have to ask him to
do? He's making our lives easier. Who is
he? Give him more stuff to do, right?
Whether it was me or whether it's one of
you or somebody else. Don't be the guy
who just shows up late, leaves early,
and just wants to go party all day. you
know, if you want to if you want to
really succeed in any job, in my case it
was animation, get there early, stay
late, what else can I do, how can I
help, that type of stuff. And so I was
just meeting people. So by the time
Fairly Odd Parents rolled around, there
was a producer at uh at Hannah Barbara
where I worked, which became Cartoon
Network at the time. There were shows
over there being made, Johnny Bravo,
Powerpuff Girls, you know, uh Dexter's
Lab, all that. I worked on Dexter's Lab
and Johnny Bravo. And um at that time
there was a producer at at Hannah
Barbarara named Fred Cybert. And Fred
was leaving Hannah Barbara and he said,
"Hey, I'm going to Nickelodeon. Do you
want to come pitch me a show over
there?" And I said, "No." And he goes,
"Why not?" And I said, "Well, I'm
working on Johnny Bravo. I'm pretty
loyal. The show's running. I can't just
leave, right?" And so he goes, "Okay,
I'll tell you what. I love what you're
doing. Call me if something changes."
Okay. So nine months go by working on
Johnny Bravo. And then they told us
Johnny Bravo was ending. Show's done.
And that's really what happens in
Hollywood. It's like, "Show's done. Bye.
Good luck everybody." And now you're
like, "Well, uh, I'm going to call
Fred." So I called Fred. It's nine
months later now. "Hey Fred, I got this,
uh, great idea. Do you have any slots
left?" He goes, "I got one slot left
over here." Uh, I go, "Uh, it was
Tuesday." I said, "I'll see you Friday."
Great. Click. I had no idea at all. I
had nothing. And so I'm like, "I got to
come up with an idea." So, I I came up
with this little boy. I drew this little
boy. I named him Timmy because my
brother's name is Timmy. And then I'm
like, what can he do? I'm like, maybe he
could do science. That'd be fun. Science
is fun. But Dexter's Lab was already
out, so I couldn't do a science show.
That's another thing. Do your homework.
Don't ever do something that's already
been done if you can help it. So, okay,
maybe um I'll do magic. That's kind of
fun. Magic's neat. So, I thought, okay,
does he have the magic power? No. If you
got a magic friend. So, I drew like a
magic friend. I drew Wanda. I drew the
girl. I thought this would be kind of
funny. Wanda sitting in the cups over
there.
>> Wanda. Yeah, the pink cups. Exactly. But
I'm like maybe Wanda. Uh,
>> what's your ideation process like when
you're bouncing off these ideas?
>> To be honest with you, at this time it
was I really needed a job. Sometimes
jobs come out of desperation. I was like
excited. My my first daughter I have two
daughters. My first daughter was born.
My second daughter was on the way. So
I've got a little girl at home. My
wife's pregnant. Johnny Bravo ended. I
have no job. And I'm like I'm needing a
job right now. So I had to go like,
"Okay, I got this idea." Timmy, uh,
Wanda, and then I I thought, I've never
seen a fairy godfather before. A fairy
godmother. Yeah. But I never had a fairy
god father. So, I drew Cosmo, but I
didn't know what to name him. Like, what
do I name this guy? And Seinfeld had
just released an episode where they
revealed Kramer's first name, which is
Cosmo Kramer. And I thought, Cosmo,
that's a really funny name. So, I wrote
Cosmo down. And then, uh, I had Cosmo on
Timmy. And I need they need a she need
he needs a bad guy. So, that what if he
had an evil babysitter? And I called her
Vicki because she's icky with a V,
right? And so I drew that and it took
like 15 minutes for the idea, the whole
first couple drawings. And then I went
home and I'd never written a script by
myself before. I'd written uh scripts
and stuff, but the uh I had never
written a script by myself. I'm like, I
got to go home and write a script by
myself. I don't want anybody else to be
creating this. It's going to be me, you
know, sink or swim. It's me by myself.
So I wrote a script that I thought was
pretty decent. And then by Friday, I had
an idea and I took it into Fred and he
liked it. And so we did the first
episode and then um that went it kind of
went on from there.
>> So when you're creating and and for
context,
>> he sounds like Donald Duck. Did you know
that?
>> Yeah. For for for context for the
audience, uh big Dodgers fan was at game
three, longest game in World Series
history last night. So I was cheering
cheering my ass off. So
>> Well, well done.
>> Yeah. Um but my question is I've always
been fascinated on the technical side of
when you're creating um the episodes for
a show. Yeah.
>> How does the drawing work and that sort
of process? Like when you're like um are
you drawing like several of the same
images in a row and just kind of
changing one thing to make it how does
how does the animation
>> I'm not but other people. Yeah. I mean I
but there are people in the world that
are animators. Absolutely. That's how I
started out. I was an animator. It's
where you take drawing one, drawing two,
drawing three, drawing four. It's like
if you took a strip of film, if you and
I were to film a movie, we filmed
somebody uh jumping off a diving board.
you know, they'd be here, then they'd be
here up in the air, then they there was
so like several frames they would jump
off the diving board. Animation's the
same way. You just got to draw it. You
can't film something in real life. So,
but in a cartoon, you can have them jump
off the diving board and then get sucked
back by a magnet or something like that,
you know? So, uh, but yeah, you would do
every drawing, but before you do the
drawing, you got to do a character
design, which is like casting a movie.
For example, like when I drew Cosmo, I'm
like, "What does this guy look like?"
So, I'll sit for a couple hours and
draw. In this case, it was quick. with
Csmouth that was 15 minutes. But
sometimes when I was working as an as an
artist, they'd say, "Butch, we got this
brand new show. Read the script." You
read the script because there's always a
script. It's like a movie TV show. Um
James walks outside and he meets um an
ostrich. Okay. What's the ostrich look
like? Right? So someone's got to draw
the ostrich. Is he big? Is he small? So
a guy like me would sit there for hours
doing different ostriches, show them to
the boss, and the boss goes, "I like
this ostrich. I like that guy. Put a hat
on him or whatever." That's what the
cartoon world is like. So yeah, then you
do that. Then you got to get somebody to
do the voices. You have to get actors
that do the voices, right? So you got to
hire these professional actors that come
in and read your script that you've
written and then uh you go from there.
So you kind of assemble it piece by
piece like a movie. Every show has
personalities and I even look at some of
the most successful YouTube channels of
our time and they they create characters
that all kind of play a specific role
within the show itself. What goes into
the thought process of how you're going
to create the characters and the
personalities behind them?
>> Yeah, it's a really good question. Like,
you know, for example, any show, for
example, like what do you have a
favorite show on TV right now?
>> Uh, or a favorite cartoon?
>> H Game of Thrones. I'd probably say,
>> let's say you're doing a Game of Thrones
script, right?
>> Um, you'd write, "Everybody's naked,
number one." You'd write that down. No,
I'm kidding. But, um, Game of Thrones,
you'd say, "Okay, what happens in this
episode?" You know, and a Game of
Thrones was like a soap opera in a way
because they would have to every episode
continued from the previous episode,
right? So when we last left Tyrion
Lannister, he was hanging from a cliff
and there was a dragon about to eat him,
right? So what happens now, you know?
So we have to come, you know, with point
A, point B, point C and you have to drag
the audience through the narrative in an
interesting way so they want to watch
the next episode, right? You can't make
it boring. That's the trick. That's what
separates a good writer from a bad
writer. Uh it's all storytelling. You
know what I do is just storytelling. I
just do it through cartoons. But you'll
have a room full of people like this
sitting around going, "Okay, like if
it's a sitcom, for example, we need an
episode today." All right. What's the
episode about? Uh, well, for Fairly Odd
Parents, for example, okay, um, well,
it's always, "What is Timmy's problem?"
Because Timmy's the star. What is
Timmy's problem? Okay. Well, we already
wish for uh goats. We wish for
refrigerators falling out of the sky. We
wish for outer space adventures. What
can we do? Hey, what if uh he hates
getting haircuts? Because all little
boys hate getting haircuts. That's cool,
right? What do we do? What if uh what if
Timmy had indestructible hair? Nobody
could cut his hair. Oh, that's funny. He
could wish instru Okay, great. Now, but
now what happens? Okay. Well, maybe he's
got indestructible hair and maybe the
hair gets so big and at first it's
really cool and beautiful people love
it. But now it gets so long it's taking
over the city, you know, it's like it's
like a giant octopus on his head. We
actually did that episode and it's
called Hurricane. And uh so the only way
to do it is uh Timmy's dad has to fly a
helicopter through his hair because it's
like Godzilla. He has to cut his hair
with a helicopter. And so but that's a
funny story you come up with in the room
with everybody, you know, and then like
what does Timmy say? What does Cosmo
say? What does Wanda say? So you need
funny people to to write that stuff and
you got to find funny people, which is
always a challenge as well.
>> So cartoons made you a millionaire.
>> Yes, sir.
>> It did.
>> It did. Yeah. I said not easy to be a
millionaire doing cartoons, but yeah, we
uh yeah, absolutely did.
>> Did Did you have some people that
thought that you were absolutely insane?
Yes. When you when you said you were
going to leave home and go make
cartoons?
>> Well, I don't thought I was insane. I I
think they wished me well, but no one in
my family had ever done cartoons ever or
art or anything. Everybody in I'm from
Michigan, right?
>> Everybody worked in like the auto
industry or just, you know, blue collar
jobs. I mean, great people, but like
they no one did entertainment, you know.
So I would imagine though you had a lot
of people maybe even family members,
friends that were maybe advising you to
say, "Hey, what are you doing?" Like
it's like like are you serious?
>> A couple people maybe had some uh uh
questions about it. Um but I was always
kind of um I guess you would say I was
always pretty headstrong. If I wanted to
do something, I would do it. So they
really didn't have any doubt in me. I
don't think they might have doubted what
I was doing because they didn't
understand it. Like what is how you
going to do this? You know, first of
all, no one in my family had ever left
Michigan to do anything,
>> let alone go into the TV industry and
the movies. What are you kidding? How do
you even do that? And it's really tricky
in the entertainment industry unless you
have somebody that's done it before.
Like any industry, it always helps to
have an inn, right? The day I got to
California, I was 18 years old. I got
off the plane with my bags and my
friend, I'd had a friend who left
Michigan before me to meet me. He didn't
meet me. He wasn't there. And this is
1983, so there's no cell phone. There's
no nothing. So my plan B was to get on
the shuttle to the school. I would had
to get on the shuttle. I had to find the
at Los Angeles International Airport. I
had to find the shuttle. Got on the
shuttle and went to the school. But um
yeah, people thought no one understood
what I was doing. Even I kind of didn't
understand it. I just knew that I wanted
to do it and I and I wasn't thinking
money at all. I was just thinking, hey,
this will be a blast. you and that's
something I actually want to touch on
real quick is I think everyone thinks
when they look at successful people or
these successful businesses for example
they think that they always started with
this grand vision
>> but in reality just like it's almost
just like hey this seems like a cool
idea and I'm going to put one foot in
front of the other and figure it out and
the vision grows bigger over time it
doesn't start off with this grandio
vision it often times start starts out
with like okay how can I even just make
a living doing this
>> well like I said with me with fairly odd
parents it was like I need a job
>> um but coming out to California
originally was I want to go to college
and maybe I'll get to work for Disney
because Disney created Cal Arts, the
school I went to. Disney Walt Disney
founded the school. So at the very least
I thought I worked for Disney someday
and to this day I've never worked for
Disney. Isn't that funny? I've worked
everywhere but Disney.
>> Was he somebody that inspired you? Walt
Disney.
>> Walt Disney really inspired me.
Absolutely. Yeah. Walt Disney. Many of
the animators who worked for Walt Disney
inspired me. A guy like Chuck Jones who
didn't work for Disney but Chuck Jones
created all your famous Bugs Bunny
cartoons of Roadrunner, all that kind of
stuff. if I really looked up to those
guys. I looked up to a lot of comic book
artists, too, but I never met any of
these guys and I never, you know, rarely
would you see like a TV special or
something or see them in a magazine, but
like again, there was no internet back
then, so you couldn't get stuff
instantaneously. So, um, I really can't
I I didn't come to California going, I'm
going to make a show about fairies one
day and and make millions of dollars.
But I did come going, I'm going to stay
in this industry for as long as I can
because I didn't know what else I was
going to do. I mean, I I don't know what
else I would have done. Maybe I would
have done music. I would have been a
police officer. I don't I don't know
what I would have done. But uh
fortunately, and it took a lot of
perseverance, number one. I always say
there's three Ps. There's passion,
patience, and persistence. Passion to do
what you love. The patience to know it's
going to take a while, but the
persistence to keep going. You need to
keep going because if you don't keep
going, you're not going to get anything.
I met so many people um in the animation
industry and the u you know being or
actors or musicians if the first thing
doesn't take off they give up and that's
really tragic sometimes.
>> Do you think that that was the formula
that separated you from other animators
or anybody trying to get a show on
television? Um that I I guess basically
what separated you from other people
trying to get a show that ended up
working your favor to take Fairly Odd
Parents? I really I really think what
separated me was probably just um
ambition. I mean really ambition. I was
a very ambitious guy. Uh still am. And I
I'm not saying other people weren't
ambitious. I just knew that I'm going to
get this. I'm going to do this cuz
number one, I know I can do it. And
number two, the opportunity is there.
And number three, if someone else gets
it, then I'll have to try harder again.
I'd rather do it now while it's right in
front of me. you know, um, uh, when
they, what was really what was really
cool moment in my career was when I was
at, uh, Cartoon Network, again, I worked
at Hannah Barbara, but then Cartoon
Network or Ted Turner bought them and
turned them into Cartoon Network. And
then right after they bought and right
after um, Cartoon Network was formed,
Fred Cybert, my producer friend, he was
running Cartoon Network, he said, or he
was producing, he was a big producer
there. He said, "We're going to give all
the artists in the studio a chance to
pitch their own shows.
Now, at the time, I'm just a regular
artist in the building doing my props
and my character designs and all that,
but they said, "You can make your own
cartoon now." And I'm like, at first I
was like, "I don't want to do that. I'm
scared. I don't really want to do that."
But a friend of mine goes, "Hey, let's
do that." And I went, "I don't want to
do that. No, it's too it's too hard."
That's what I said. He goes, "Ah, come
on. You can jump on my cartoon. Come and
help me pitch it." So, we pitched his
cartoon and it sold. Like, wow, that was
easy. And the reason they bought it,
they told me later, no one else had
pitched anything, so they bought one.
>> Where which one was that?
>> Oh, it was a it was a cartoon called
Shake and Flick. Uh it's just a one
episode cartoon. Pretty pretty fun,
interesting cartoon. But uh did that
cartoon and uh thought, well, that's
kind of neat. Let's do another one. So
we did another one. And we invent we we
created another cartoon called Fish and
Chip, which was about a a shark and a
links that work at a bomb squad. Was
kind of fun. Another oneoff, you know.
But then I started getting the taste for
this going, I could really But then when
you every cartoon you make, it's a
story, it's characters, it's a whole new
world, right? So what worlds am I
creating? Like think about it. Every
movie you've ever seen that you really
like, somebody created that world.
Whether it's Avengers, Star Wars,
Indiana Jones, whatever, somebody made
that world. And there's certain world
rules for every world, you know.
>> But I moved from being just a cog in the
machine to wanting to create the
machine. And that at the mo at that time
is what separated me a little bit. I
think
>> when when I think about the Fairly Odd
Parents, one of the most impressive
things to me isn't just necessarily the
fact that you created a global
phenomenon, which it definitely became
worldwide, but the longevity that you
had of you said 18 years, right?
>> Yeah.
>> When I think about
>> it's still running now, but we made new
shows for 18 years,
>> which is absolutely insane. And and I
think that, you know, in any business,
right? Take fashion for example, the
average cycle of a hot brand is like 5
to seven years. I would imagine in
television.
>> That's a huge long cycle for a a
clothing brand. Unless you're Michael
Jordan.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But I would imagine the same
thing probably applies in the television
business. Absolutely. And so what was
kind of your secret ingredient to that
longevity, as I like to say in content
creation, you constantly have to be an
innovator in whatever niche that you're
in. Absolutely. You know, you hear all
the time, especially in content, people
hit plateaus and they stop growing. And
I'm anytime that I've ever hit a plateau
or I've stopped growing month over month
over month, like I get paralyzed by an
action. and I get paralyzed by not
growing. I'm always thinking about that
thing to keep growing, to keep things,
you know, what were you doing, you know,
maybe getting into year 5, 10, 15 to be
like, let's keep this thing going. How
are you continuing to kind of cast that
vision and get bigger and bigger and
bigger?
>> Great question, man. Really good
question. Um, but what's great about
guys like you, um, especially you,
because I've met you before already, you
have a mind that you want to just keep
going. you have a a very ambitious, very
entrepreneurial mind, which a lot of
people don't have, and that's okay if
you don't have that, but the ones that
do are always dissatisfied unless
they're doing something more, right? I
was the same way. Um, with Fairly Odd
Parents, the ratings were going through
the roof. The the show was doing great.
And after a while, um, they were like,
uh, after like three or four years, they
were like, well, we're going to cancel
your show. I thought, cancel the show?
It's doing great. Yeah, but you know,
but we just do three or four years and
you know, thanks anyway. I'd say, well,
Spongebob's still going like, well,
Spongebob's different. That's doing, you
know, that that that was doing uh things
on a different level. And I would but
think I had to learn how to play the
game. I was I had to move from just
being an artist to being a business
person. I started talking to the execs
more, started talking to the people that
ran the studio more. Hey, let's talk a
little bit. Let's, you know, let's talk
about this type of stuff. Let's
negotiate a little bit. And so, Fairly
Odd Parents actually got cancelceled
five times. And I made sure that it kept
going each time. They had a rap party
for us. That's when you close the show
down. You have a big party for
everybody. We had five rap parties for
Fairly Up parents. And I kept I kept
saying, "It's not over yet." I let them
think it was.
>> What parties are those?
>> Like it's called a wrap party. When you
wrap up the show, you're done.
>> Okay.
>> So, we're done. Everybody's done. Thanks
everybody. Great couple seasons. I'm
like, "No, I'd be at the rap party
going, "No, we're going to keep going
right now." And sure enough, about two
months later, they would call me, you
know, we really feel we want to keep
going. I would pray a lot, man. I pray
about everything. I'm I'm a Christian
guy, so I'd pray about everything. But I
would be like, um, you know, I know the
show's going to keep going. The show has
legs. When a show has legs, it means it
can keep going. The show has legs.
>> But then I would say, what if we did a
halfhour special? What if we did what if
we added a character? What if Cosmo
Wanda had a baby? What if we added a a
magic pet? You know, that kind of stuff.
So when you can add things to the show
to make it more interesting for the
powers that be, they tend to get a
little more interested.
>> One of the uh most I guess this was like
a monumental like me memory in my
childhood was when you did the
collaboration between Fairly Odd Parents
and Jimmy Neutron.
>> Oh yeah, the Jimmy Timmy power.
>> What was what was the business like move
and decision and creativity behind that?
>> Good question. I get asked this at comic
conventions all the time. Um, well, it
was great because, uh, Jimmy Neutron was
another show at Nickelodeon being
created at the exact same time Fairly
Appearance was going on. So,
>> you know, the guy that created that
show?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. It was, uh, well, the
guy who created it lived in Ohio. I
think it was Ohio or Illinois. But Steve
Odokkirk, the producer of the show,
lived in California, so he'd be in the
studio a lot.
>> The the the thing that fascinated me
about that was that the animation styles
are completely different. Absolutely.
One's 2D, one's like
>> one's 3D. Yeah. One one was done by
computer. Jimmy Neutron was done CG uh
computer graphics and then Fairly
Operance was done uh handdrawn digital.
We would just do it that way. But at the
time for Jimmy Neutron, there weren't a
lot of CG shows on TV. That was like
2003. Like there weren't there were CG
shows but not a lot. So Jimmy Neutron
was out and uh basically we were all in
the same building. So we're walking
around saying hi to each other. The
writers of Jimmy Neutron are over here
and the writers fairly apparent. One day
we're all in the kitchen hanging having
coffee or whatever and we're like, "Wait
a second. You've got a kid in your show
named Jimmy who's 10 who does science.
I've got a kid in my show named Timmy
who's 10 who does magic. What are we
morons? We need to combine these shows."
And so we're like, "What what can we do?
Let's think about it." So we pitch the
idea to to the the exacts. They're like,
"We love that idea." And so we And when
you do a special, you got to make it um
special. That's what the whole word is,
right? It can't just be an episode of
the show. What can we do? Let's have
them cross worlds. Let's have Timmy go
into Jimmy's world become 3D and have
Timmy going or have Jimmy go into
Timmy's world become 2D. So we did that
and uh it's called the Jimmy Timmy Power
Hour and it was the highest rated
special of the whole year. Just did gang
buster numbers and made us all look
great, right? So like let's do another
one. The network says we did another
one. Uh we did three specials, Jimmy
Timmy Power Hours. Did three of them and
uh hope you guys saw them. I think they
were pretty fun. Yeah, they were pretty
fun.
>> What in the world is your creative
process like? Cuz cuz you know I'm here
the last minute or so listening to you.
Obviously the thing I'm thinking about
is you're coming up with
>> you. Think about young kids. Their
attention spans are so short. They're so
quick. You're having to make engaging,
interesting, you know, long content for
years and years and years, episode after
episode. You have to deliver. It's on
you.
>> You're the you're the man behind the
show. What's your creative process like?
How are you coming up with all these
ideas? It's fascinating to me. Genuinely
great idea, bro. I mean, you know, I
wish I could say I had like a uh a
cauldron that was bubbling with magic
potions in it or something, but quite
honestly, if you love what you do,
you're going to do it every day. Uh,
sink or swim. You know, a lot of us will
say that we'll do what we love for free.
And we really would. I mean, I mean, you
love the Dodgers, right? You you would
spend any amount of money to go see a
Dodger game. Oh, yeah. Probably, right?
You went to the World Series last night.
I mean, but like I would draw and create
whether I was getting paid or not. It's
nice that I get paid, don't get me
wrong, but um I just love creating
stuff. And I'll And when you're on a
deadline, when you're doing something
under contract, when you when a
network's paying you x amount of dollars
to deliver 20 half hours in 18 months,
you got to do it. You got to come up
with the ideas. That's why you hire
these creative people to come around
you. It's not all just me. I'd like to
say it was all me, but I haven't I I've
had incredible teams of writers, artists
that have helped me. I've got to be the
leader in many cases, but man, I love
what I do. I'm like, "Hey, what's a cool
idea?" You're driving down the road, you
see some funny billboard. That's funny.
Let's That'd be a cool idea. Someone
pitched an idea once. It was a one-s
sentence idea. Timmy goes to work with
his dad. Timmy goes to work with his
dad. We never had gone to Timmy's dad's
work. What is that like? And Timmy's
dad's a pencil pusher. He always said,
"I'm a pencil pusher." So, he works at a
pencil factory. What's it called? Pencil
Nexus. Okay, that's cool. Pencil Nexus.
And they go there and it's like Willy
Wonka's chocolate factory, but it's all
made of pencils, you know, like that's
pretty funny. So that's where an idea
can spring out of you know but uh having
creative people around you building the
right team is important but being the
driving force has got to be uh on you
every single day because think about it
how many like Elon Musk I know he's got
hundreds of creative people around him
but at the end of the day he makes the
calls right I mean I'm not Elon Musk but
I'm a version of him in a way it's like
it's like you want to be Elon Musk but
Elon Musk there's a lot demanded of him
and so the other thing too about being
successful there's a scripture in the
Bible ible that says uh to whom much is
given, much is required.
>> Everybody wants the big house. They want
the big car. They want the name on the
door. But man, there's a lot that comes
along with that.
>> You know, and some of us aren't ready
for it. Some of us become ready. Some of
us don't care. If you care about your
name on the door more than the product,
it's never going to work. It's got to be
the product first and then all the other
accolades or whatever will come. But
it's got to be end of the day, man. Long
after I'm gone, the Fairly Odd Parents
will still be aired. people still be
laughing, you know, that's all that's
what I care about the most.
>> It is crazy. You said something that I
honestly reflected on myself a little
bit cuz I was wondering, you know, I do
a lot of like the backend business for
like the school of hard knocks. I was
like, why do I enjoy doing what I do so
much?
>> And I realized that growing up I'd
always play like these strategy games on
the computer where I would build like
economies at scale and like and like and
like and I was like I was like building
up like almost like econ economies and
like
>> like the Sims games.
>> Yeah, like Sims. Exactly. And I was
like, "Oh my gosh, I'm just doing that
but in real life with within a business
with people and and resources." And I
look I'm what I'm kind of curious though
is when we look at our channel and we
say that going luck is is you you can go
viral once, okay, by chance.
>> Anybody can do that.
>> But to do it consistently, there's a
formula.
>> Mhm.
>> And so when you go into a show, like if
we look at, you know, our videos, it
starts off with a hook and then there's,
you know, education or entertainment and
then there's a closing. Mhm.
>> Is there a formula to creating a great
show?
>> Great question. There absolutely is.
It's not the exact same formula all the
time, but it the elements are always
there. You've got to have a great set of
characters, number one, and a great um
concept. Uh I But the characters come
first, concept second. Here's why. Like
I could uh let's look at a show like The
Office. You ever watch The Office?
>> Do you like The Office?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Funny. It's funny. Calm down.
It's like it's fine. No, a lot of people
like the It was a very successful show.
But my point about The Office is um The
Office uh is takes place in an office.
It's like the most boring environment of
all time. But the characters are really
funny, right? So they create great
characters. Uh Star Wars I truly believe
was such a success back in the 70s when
it first came out because not only was
it the space adventure that was done
really well, but the characters were
great. Luke Skywalker, Han Solo,
Chewbacca, C3PO, all that stuff, right?
How many space movies have been made?
Tons. How many can you name that were
just awesome, right? Very few. More bad
movies get made than good ones. You know
why? Because everybody's throwing darts
at the dart board, right? But every once
in a while, you got someone who's really
good at darts. They could throw it and
hit the dart hit the hit the the
bullseye, right? So, and you might even
have talented people that get more than
one shot at the dart board, but not
every movie they make is great, you
know? But they if you even look at
Sylvester Stallone, Rocky, he created a
great character. That's not the high
concept of that movie. He's a boxer. Big
deal. But he's such a great character.
You want to follow He's the underdog. Is
Rocky gonna win?
>> You You want him to win really bad,
right? But is he gonna, you know, you
don't know it? Everything's leading up
to that big fight, right? So, how do you
construct that narrative? How do you So,
everybody, basically, to answer your
question, the formula is you got to
follow a character from point A to point
B, and he's got to succeed a little bit,
then fail, then succeed ultimately at
the end. That ultimately at the end. I I
I just saw Samuel L. Jackson the other
day, you know, was asked like some of
the best advice that he got throughout
his career. He talks about when Bruce
Willis told him that you want to find
one character that you that that you can
write out for your entire career to
where it will never be a box office flop
in particular with, you know, Sylvester
Shalom. He had Rambo and Rocky and then
you have all these other guys that have
seven or eight movies with the same
character. It kind of reminds
>> Arnold Schwarzenegger is another one.
>> The Terminator all that stuff. Yeah.
There's and there there's not too many
of those lately. I mean, maybe there
kind of are a little bit. I don't know.
Maybe Hugh Jackman or Wolverine maybe
could be one for sure,
>> you know, or like maybe Deadpool, I
think, something like that. But
>> those characters are what people fall in
love with and they'll watch that
character anywhere. So, I really knew
when we went into doing Fairly Odd
Parents and Danny Phantom and my other
shows,
>> even if we're in a white background with
no background at all, uh the people got
to tune in to watch these characters.
So, the characters have to be strong.
So, it's it's funny you say that is you
can pair yourself along with a really
strong character or you can also put
yourself in the wrong box or maybe you
put yourself you get tired of that box.
And I think someone that I think of that
talks about this is Matthew McConnA
>> and he talks about how he got sick of
doing romcoms.
>> And so he had to even though people and
you know companies were throwing him
millions and millions of dollars for
these roles he was just like look I
can't do it because I'm going to be
stuck in this box. And so he literally
stopped making movies for two years.
>> Yeah. I'm gonna stop making movies for
two years. Can't do these movies. I got
I can't do romcoms anymore. Yeah, but he
but he stuck to his principle. He he set
a principle in his mind and stuck to it.
And fortunately, it paid off for him.
That's really great. But you're exactly
right. I mean, um you can like Jim
Carrey is another example who is really
who did a lot of comedies at the
beginning of his career, then decided to
switch over to dramas, right? I think a
lot more of his comedies were successful
than his drama. I could be wrong. I
mean, don't get don't nail me on that
one. But, you know, I prefer myself I'm
really good at making fun comedic stuff
and I love doing that and I love making
it all the time and I love, you know,
will I do a dramatic cartoon someday?
I'd love to. I'd love to do something
like an animeish type of thing or a more
of a serious kind of a feature film, How
to Train Your Dragon, something like
that. I could definitely do it. But
right now, um, with running your own
studio and stuff, it's like I'm looking
at an array of different types of things
now that we're doing. Not just the fun
comedies for this age group, but now for
this age group. That's also the thing
you got to think of too. Everything you
make, every story you tell is a is a
product. It's who's it for though?
>> Like who is this for? That shirt, like
that jacket, who is that for? I mean,
who is this for? Who's going to buy it?
How many will they buy? It's like which
which item will go viral, right? Which
one of these will go viral? Like you
were saying, anyone can get a viral
video, whether it's like don't you love
that on on online? Like you'll shoot
something for I'll do a 10-second video
of this, it'll get 4 million views and
then you do a whole video where you plan
it, you write it, and nobody watches.
You're like, really?
>> Sometimes it's the stuff you never
expect.
>> Exact. Exactly. But then like again,
when you can find that formula and that
sweet spot, that's really But it takes
work. Mhm.
>> It takes even with Fairly Odd Parents,
we, you know, the first couple seasons
we really didn't know the characters as
well. But fortunately, we were able to
um do multiple seasons where I could
find the sweet spot of that character,
that character. He'll say this really
funny. And then getting to know the
voice actors, too. The guy who does
Cosmo will do this perfectly. The girl
who does Wanda will nail that perfectly.
Let's give her that line. So, it's
discovering all of that.
>> You not only did The Fairly Odd Parents,
but you also created Danny Phantom. What
was through what was the thought process
of wanting to start another show and how
did that one end up also becoming a
success like Fairly Odd Parents?
>> Oh, thanks. You know, it's funny about
that one. That was an opportunity that
showed up that I was ready for. Thank
goodness. Um,
>> what are opportunities like to you?
>> Opportunity. Oh, they're like comets. C
M Ts. Opportunity. Opportunities are
like comets, I always say, because um
they are really cool and beautiful, but
they don't come around very often and it
might be a long time till you see
another one, you know. So I always say
seize that opportunity. But I was doing
Fairly Odd Parents. I did like a year
and a half Fairly Odd Parents was doing
great on Nickelodeon. The heads of
Nickelodeon took me out to dinner. Let's
go out to dinner. Okay. And it was a
typical Hollywood thing in Beverly Hills
went to this really nice restaurant. Me
and these two gentlemen and they're
like, "We love Fairly Odd Parents. It's
doing great. We want to pick up more."
I'm like, "Oh, that's great. Thank you."
You know, that's wonderful. Do you have
anything else? I'm like, "Um, now what
would you say in that situation?"
I I feel like
>> because the opportunity is right there.
Sell it first and then figure it out.
>> Exactly. Right. Well said. You guys are
thinking. Fortunately, I already had
something. I didn't have I wasn't making
it up. I said, "I do have something
else. It's called Danny Phantom." And I
thought at Danny Phantom, my mother
lived in Las Vegas. I lived in LA. She
wanted to move out to LA. So, I went to
Vegas, picked up my mom in a moving van,
and I'm driving a moving van from Vegas
to LA. It's like a 5-h hour drive. And
all along the way, I knew Nickelodeon
was looking for a boys action show.
Like, boys action show, boys action
show. It'd be kind of cool. I'm driving
and I'm like, what would be a cool boys
action show? And I if I could come up
with a cool name that would really help,
right? Because I thought when I was a
kid, I loved a show called Johnny Quest.
You ever heard of Johnny Quest?
>> Yeah. Super cool name. Johnny Quest.
That's a great name.
>> What would be a cool name like Quest?
And I'm like, okay. Um, Lightning,
that's a cool name. Or like, you know,
Dynamite, that's cool. I thought I
landed on the word Phantom. Phantom's
really cool. So, I'm going like Billy
Phantom. Bobby Phantom. And I went,
Danny Phantom, that sounds really cool.
So, by the time I got back to LA, I had
this show idea called Danny Phantom. And
I was gonna make him like a Ghostbuster,
like a Scooby-Doo type of thing. But
then we decided to make him a superhero
with like superpowers, like like one of
the Teen Titans or X-Men or something.
And so that's what I pitched at that
moment at that dinner. I said, "I got
this thing called Danny Phantom." He
goes, "Great. Let's make it." It was
that quick.
