You're 46 now. 35-year-old Mike had how
much money in his bank account?
>> At $15. $15 bank account. He get a
million dollar judgment. [music] That's
where it was.
>> And that was only 10 years ago. It's
crazy what could happen in 10 years. In
2020, [music] business mogul Mike
Wisetrack sold his company for $1.5
billion. Can you confirm that?
>> I can confirm that. And I like the sound
of [music] business mogul. I haven't
been called that before, but I like the
ring.
>> Mike, you are mogul. You are. You're
most definitely.
>> You sell a company for a billion
dollars, you get the mogul.
>> Thank you. I always tell I tell people
there's two types of people in the
world. This is simple. It's people who
think the world happens to them and
people who think they happen to [music]
the world. It's a mindset.
>> What's something that's expensive that's
completely worth the money?
>> I would say this is the best investment
I ever make. And I tell every fan of
this is is like it's getting if you can
do that, that's huge.
>> I don't think I've ever heard that
before. That's that's a really
fascinating.
>> I love this. This is great. Like this
was an incredible conversation. If
everyone at this table were to die
tomorrow, but you could leave one more
guiding principle with the younger
generation [music] with everyone tuned
in right now, what would that be? Uh,
stop giving a I
>> What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James and I'm here with Jack and
Josh and we have an incredible guest for
you all today. We're out in New York
City with business mogul Mike Wisetrack.
Mike in 2020 sold his company for $1.5
billion. Can you confirm that?
>> I can confirm that. And I like the sound
of business mogul. I haven't been called
that before, but I like the ring.
>> Mike, you are a mogul. You are you are
most definitely [laughter] the ring.
>> You sell a company for a billion
dollars, you get the mogul on that.
>> I'll take it. I'll take it.
>> But what I what I love too though is
that you this was the what second or
third fastest growing food company of
all time.
>> It's the third fastest growing business
to 500 million of all time.
>> That's incredible, man. Where I want to
get started is I want to talk about
35-year-old Mike. 35-year-old, you're 46
now. 35-year-old Mike had how much money
in his bank account?
>> So, I had $15. I'd uh just had my home.
I did a short sale, which is kind of a a
pseudo foreclosure process on my home.
So, I had had no home. Uh my business
had gone bankrupt. Um and in the process
of that, I had a long-term lease on it
and I got sued by the landlord. So, I
lost a judgment for a million dollars on
that. So, $15 bank account, negative
negative million dollar judgment. Uh
that's where it was.
>> And that was only 10 years ago.
>> 10 years ago.
>> It's crazy what can happen in 10 years.
But I think what's also important to
note about that is you started your
first company, what 24 years old after
investment banking. Yeah. So I did two
years of investment banking, 24, 25. I
left and started doing my own businesses
uh in real estate. My my parents are
entrepreneurs, so I started doing a lot
of things they were doing, real estate,
uh side hustles, uh you know, kind of
trying to figure out could I do a tech
company, just kind of dabbling in a lot
of different things. Ultimately ended up
doing a restaurant. Um which I don't
recommend. Uh well, that one didn't
work. It worked for a lot of people.
Didn't work for me. Um, but I I I like
to say that was my most expensive NBA. I
learned more. I think you do sometimes
you you learn a lot more through
success, but you learn a lot in failure
if you pay attention. And I I learned a
lot in that experience. While it was
painful uh and and very expensive, I I
learned a lot.
>> And what was the greatest lesson you
learned through bankruptcy through
through the 10 years of that first phase
of your life as an entrepreneur before
you started freshly before the billion
dollar companies? Talk to us like let's
collapse time right here for everybody
watching right now. those 10 years,
what's the greatest lesson you learned
that what did that failure teach you?
>> Yeah, I think well I mean the tactical
the first thing is never sign a personal
guarantee. Uh that that is lesson number
one for those of you out there. Don't
sign personal guarantees if you could
avoid it. Um I think that the the number
one thing I realize is that um you have
to get in the game and and I think you
you I I say this all the time. You got
to start stop wishing um and you got to
decide and that means you get in the
game and it's the only way to learn. I
think you can you can listen to podcasts
like this which are phenomenal and
they'll get you excited and you can
listen to advice but like the only way
you actually can learn is to do and and
that's messy. Uh it always is. I I don't
care who you are. It's messy. Um you
know you you you can look at you know
someone like me who's who's been through
that and say okay I want to get there.
Like you're just going to it's going to
be messy along the way and you just got
to you got to enjoy that process and but
you got to do it and and and it it never
gets easier. So, like there's if you
want to if you want to do a startup, if
you want to do your own business, you
got to you got to do it. Today's the
day. You're listening to this podcast.
Today is the day. Do something. Stop
wishing you had your own business and
just decide I'm going to have my own
business and start going.
>> Mike, why did so why did you initially
make that jump when you were like 24 or
25? Like what like that, you know,
obviously your parents were a little bit
entrepreneurial, but I feel like a lot
of people kind of like what you're
alluding to just make that jump. What
what gave you the courage to be able to
do that? Why did you want to go into
that entrepreneurship?
>> Yeah, I think for me is is I I had a I
had a great experience with great people
doing investment banking, but I realized
I hate working for people and I decided
early I I just didn't see a life where I
wanted to work for people and I wanted
to be my own boss and I had the hubris
of a 24 year old to think that I was so
smart. But I I think people neglect to
understand that you you manufacture your
life. You are control. I always tell I
tell people there's two types of people
in the world. It's this simple. people
who think the world happens to them and
people who think they happen to the
world. And it's that simple. It's a
mindset. And and people say, "Oh, well
that's easy for you to say now." Well, I
said it when I was 24. I said it when I
was 35 and had 15 in the bank account.
And it wasn't easy then. But life is
about mindset. It's a life about what
kind of life do you want now. There also
is no right or wrong life, right? What
is right for you is maybe, you know,
what's right for you is not right for
me. So, you have to decide what do you
want. for some people working having
security being able to spend time with
work life balance is is the life they
want and there's nothing wrong with that
and so I think it's just choosing what
life do you want so I think the number
one thing people don't do enough is
actually spend a lot of time thinking
about what do you want in 10 years and
and I it's like I always the analogy I
always give is like you get in a car and
you just start driving well guess what
you're going to show up somewhere you
have no idea like life is not should not
be done accidentally like you should
spend the time to focus on what do you
want? What is that? What does that
actually mean? And not unpack it into I
think sometimes people I want a Ferrari.
It's like, well, okay, you're going to
get the Ferrari and then it's it's going
to be it's not going to matter that
much. What do you really want life to be
about? Do do you want family? Do you
want do you want [clears throat] you
were talking about like do you want
religion to be a big part of your life?
What do you want? And then manufacture
that life. And and I know it sounds, but
you can manifest your life. If you try
to get there accidentally, you're never
going to get there. How the hell does an
investment banker end up in the
restaurant industry?
>> Well, a lot of poor decisions. No. Uh,
my [laughter] parents my parents are
restaurant tours. I think the thesis was
was we had my parents had built an
amazing restaurant and I think the idea
was like, you know, which is a logical
thesis. Let's let's transpose it. I
think this is a great example of doing a
business that I didn't actually like.
And and successful restaurant tours love
being in the restaurant. They love they
love being in in that. They they love
more the social scene of that. That's
what successful restaurant. I hated
that. I hated being at the restaurant. I
loved the backend stuff. I loved like I
loved all of the the bookkeeping, the
finance. I loved I loved all of the
aspects of it, but I didn't like the
personal service aspect. So, what did I
do? I I realized like, well, wait a
minute. I I don't like this having front
of house, but I love the back of house.
I love like the I love the complexities
of a busy night. I loved how do you move
food through? How do you think about
prep to processing? How do you think
about inventory, COGS, labor margins?
How do you increase utilization? That
stuff was where my mind was. So, what I
ultimately did is said, "Well, you're
really good at that. You love doing
that. We should create a company where
you get rid of the front of the house
and you get you only have the back
house, which what Freshly was." So,
Freshly was a restaurant. We serve fully
prepared meals. We just didn't have a
front of house, right? We ship the meals
directly to you. And I think so the
point is is is you got to I you got to
have to understand who you are and and
then and then build on your strengths.
And I think people always are focusing
on like you know fix your weaknesses.
You can you can certainly try to improve
your weaknesses and I have plenty of
those that I work on all the time. But
the easiest thing is do what's working.
Lean into where you naturally have
energy, passion and and and I think
that's where I just spend a lot of time
with people is like what do you like
doing? What what gets you fired up? Like
you know I'm I'm 46. I I I sold my
business.
Money hit the bank. Stayed for a year. I
had a job the second literally the
second I left I I left uh Nestle where
Freshly was. I was I was in the next
business. I love what I'm doing. I wake
up every day fired up, jacked up what
I'm doing because I get to create a life
now. It do I work a lot? I work a ton.
But it feels like fun for me. And I
think this is always like work life
balance. Like I I don't know anyone who
finds balance between, you know, family
and and these things. What I think is
you can find balance in like I love
every part of my life. I love work. I
love hanging with my family. I love
hanging with my friends. I love golfing.
And so I find passion and energy at
everything I do in my life. And I think
that's like the life I want to live. I
don't want balance between being hating
my life and and loving my life. And I
think this is what a lot of people think
about when they say, "Oh, I want work
life balance." Like, "Yeah, I hate work,
so I don't want too much of that and I
want the fun stuff." It's like, I want
the fun stuff everywhere I go.
>> I always like to talk to people in their
low points and in particular the mindset
that got them out of there. You know, I
asked you earlier what you think that
separates middle class from wealthy
people, and you said it's mindset. So,
when you were 35 years old, when you
were broke, what was that kind of
winning mindset that you adopted?
Because you you had one of two options.
You kind of you could have given up. You
could have gone and played it safe, done
something more comfortable, but really
when you're down to $50, what do you you
can't do anything with that?
>> So, this is so this is I think this is
this is the most powerful pack cuz
because I think it's easy and and it
somewhat is easy when you've you know,
now to to retroactively tell this. You
could tell it with rosecolored glasses.
So I have these series of just massive
failures, right? And it's like, you
know, it's it's for it's just like
continuously getting punched and and so
what that does to you is it just it it
erodess your confidence, erodess your
ability. You start getting negative. And
so I ended up I I went I I went I I
randomly got turned on to Tony Robbins
wrote a finance book and I don't have
the name of it. And I know this is back
before Ton Tony Robbins is who he is now
and he's a guru, but this is back kind
of when he was doing infomercials and
and he was kind of viewed as more of
like a you know like a kind of a fake
charlatan and and that was kind of my
mindset at least. And I read this
finance book and it was like super smart
and I'm a finance guy. So I'm like wow
maybe Tony Robbins is like he's got
something going. So I I'm like at the
lowest point of my life, right? I've got
no money. I've got bankruptcy. I just
gone through a divorce retrospectively.
It was, you know, like a bad breakup,
but it was an early. And so I'm like,
[ __ ] I cannot win at anything. And I'm
miserable. And I do and I and and so I
read and I'm like, you know what? I'm
going to do the the uh the uh 30-day
seminar. And this is a it's a recorded.
It's literally he says in there, flip
the tape. Right? So it's 30 years old.
It's Tony Robbins 30 days. And I spent
30 days doing this. And it completely
changed my mindset. It was all about
mind. It was all about gratitude. It's
all about getting yourself prepped. I
remember and I said, "You know what? I
I've got nothing to lose." And I think
that's, you know, he talks about that
and he's like, "When you're at your
lowest, you got nothing to lose, right?"
You're like, "Fuck it." Like, "What what
am I going to go to? Z I'm already at
negative a million. I go two." Yeah. So,
so you're willing to tame and so for me
is like I I got into this and a lot of
things converge at the same time.
Sometimes, you know, life is funny. It
like attracts and I'm a big believer
like I I read the book The Secret, which
again is a little hocus pocus, but I
believe law and attraction. I believe
what you put out you get. And so I just
I just relentlessly said, "I'm going to
do this." And I remember I I sat in
front of a uh in front of a mirror in a
dark room every day. Every morning I get
up, I was an early riser and I would
just say for 10 minutes I would I would
manifest what I was going to create
going to create the largest food
business, going to be a millionaire,
going to do all these. And there was no,
you know, I I wrote down all my goals
and I still do this today and I had in
my goals that I was I was going to have
$100,000 in my bank account, right? And
and so so you know there was no plan to
get there. I'm like so so my big thing
is you change that mindset. You know for
those of you out there like it starts
with it starts with your mind. You if
you can't change your mind like nothing
else is going to get there. If you see
yourself as a victim is you see the
world as being the world is being
unfair. If you think it's a zero sum
game and everything every success you
get I can't get. If you live in a world
of envy again I I like you know it's the
reason that every religion says you know
don't covet thy neighbor's wife right?
It's like MB is a horrible thing because
it's a negative thing. Like and so I
think when you look at these things is
like you got to remove yourself from
that. You got to put yourself in a
position of gratitude. You got to be
thankful for all the things you have and
and and and we were talking about this
earlier, but like I think people, you
know, this podcast is certainly on
business and business the measuring
scorecard is wealth or or money, right?
But you're like, well, you know, that's
not the measuring scorecard. like you
know hate to drop the secret but like
it's family it's you know some degree of
religion or or perspective on life it's
it's your relationship with your friends
and all these things are a level of
wealth and I think your health for sure
you know there's a great a great story
is that if you went to Warren Buffett he
said Warren Buffett today and any one of
us right he said Warren I got to make
you a deal right and we'll make a deal
we got to make a deal with Warren
Buffett Warren you get all of Warren's
money but you have to become his age he
gives you all of his money and he gets
to be your You think he's going to take
that trade?
>> He do.
>> 100% he's taking that trade. Would you
take that trade? Absolutely. Hell no.
So, the number one thing we have the
number one thing and there's uh you know
I got this uh it's the five different
wells and I'm going blank in the name
but it's a great book. You guys could
I'll I'll send it. We'll put in the
links. But he talks about he talks about
we're all billionaires and we're time
billionaires. So if you're 20 years old
you're time billionaires. meaning you
have a billion you have a billion
minutes that you got to live and and so
like this is like we we're so wealthy in
ways that we don't appreciate and we
spend so much time being like oh well
you know if I was Warren Buffett I would
all of a sudden be happy. Well Warren
Buffett would trade everything he has
for most of the people listening to
this. So it's a good idea to kind of
always like triangulate like what is
truly wealth. Uh if you're willing to
give up all your money for age then I
would say age is more valuable than than
money right? I I always like to say
that, you know, if somebody came and
offered you $10 billion, uh, would you
take it? And of course, everybody I
asked that to, they're always like,
"Yes." But I said, "The catch is you
don't get to wake up tomorrow." And then
they always say, "Well, I don't want the
$10 billion." And so theoretically, what
you're saying there is that the day you
waking up today is worth more than $10
billion or any amount of money that you
put there. Uh, it's so so valuable. And
I love what you said about the envy
thing because I think especially a lot
of people in our generation, they're
coming up, they see the the the flashy
car, they see the house on the hill, and
uh they don't real and and maybe they're
not where they want to be yet. And so
they envy things or they're they're
putting so much pressure on themselves
when they don't realize that like
everyone's on their own timeline. You
you know, you kind of have to be like a
horse in the races and you have the
blinders on and you don't need to see
what the other person's necessarily.
Don't worry about what they're doing
next to you and and just play your own
game. What I want to ask you, Mike, is
uh obviously sold freshly uh for over a
billion dollars to Nestle, and you said
it was the the third fastest growing
company of all time to five to $500
million. What was the juggernaut of that
growth? What What do you think were like
the the key contributing factors that
allowed you to grow freshly that
quickly?
>> Yeah, I got to say I got to add the
caveat. Food, third fastest growing
third fastest growing food company. And
this is the great thing about you
realize as a as a founder you get really
good at you can filter to make yourself
the fastest at anything. Uh you just put
enough filters in front of it. Uh but uh
so I'm really good at that. Um but uh so
I think at the end of the day there's
there's a few things that I think we did
exceptionally well. So one is there's an
old Gary Players quote. The harder I
work the luckier I got. Life is a little
bit of putting yourself in the right
spot at the right time to capture
whatever is going on. So, we were at the
perfect spot at the perfect time with
the perfect idea and and you know, it'd
be absolute hubris to say like we didn't
just strike, you know, we were we were
there in in California with our picks
and and someone found gold. So, like we
we were just at that point what what
converged at what converged the magical
things that converge. So, two years
before Amazon made this thing called
Prime. So, what did Amazon do? Amazon
said we're going to deliver in two days.
So, what did that force? It forced UPS
and FedEx to extend their ground
network. So, they extended their ground
network. By extending their ground
network, it meant that guys like us
could now ship products that were
required refrigeration in two days to a
broader reach of people, right? So we
had nothing to do with that. Thank you
Amazon for that. Additionally, what
happened at the same time, you had this
convergence of Facebook, now Meta, but
at the time, this is pre-IN Instagram.
Facebook was now all of a sudden turning
the ad engine, right? And and so what
you see is like you see this in every
channel. So, it's like if you're a
marketer out there, whenever a new
channel comes on, go get and it starts
getting traction, get all over it
because because it's like before that it
was Google and if you really knew Google
and you knew how to do SEM and SEO, you
would win. So, Facebook was new. It was
brand new. We were there. We were at the
forefront of it. Um, we we figured out
Facebook as well, if not better than
anyone else. We were just absolute
machines. We stayed laser focused on one
channel. I I would say 90% of our growth
was because of Facebook. We focused on
that. So we were the biggest brand that
no one knew about because we weren't
doing PR. We weren't doing stuff. So we
were just we were laser focused on this
channel and we figured out
>> on Facebook. Give us some sauce on
Facebook. What's you got? We got to give
>> Well, so the algo's changed now. So now
it's all about content. So you know this
is why like we're all in a content
universe. You got to create a ton of
content. You It's throwing spaghetti at
a wall, right? It's it's it's literally
like the black boxes are so refined now
that all you can do is just throw up 200
pieces of content, test it, and then you
start you quickly see what's working.
rampant and then you can try to build
lookalike content on that but it's a
little bit of like just craziness on and
you guys see this and even like on
social influencers but so it's content
engine so now it's the content back then
it was a little less of a a dark box
algo so what you would do is you
basically could warm up ads in like the
Philippines and so what we would do is
we would warm up ads in the Philippines
because the Philippines was super cheap
to pay for ads so you you'd go and you'd
pay like a penny a click for for an ad
and it would tell ALGO that this was
working, right? And then then you would
then open that up to the US market once
you got the ALGO kind of firing on it.
So we did a bunch of these different
hacks that you could kind of you could
you could fire you could do so then we
do a lot of layering a lot of different
stuff. So you you know as any good
marketer should know is you're kind of
it's a funnel, right? So you got brand
awareness, intent and then at the bottom
is kind of that like where you really
want to spend money. they're they're you
know they've so you you're doing a lot
on that a lot of data and then we just
looked at it as as I looked at it I
still look at marketing as day trading
we had daily goals for the team we did
benchmarks we treated like a sales
organization if we hit this month we'd
all go out to dinner had the team every
every week you know every month tell me
the restaurant you pick any restaurant
and then I'd come back with the numbers
so they get all fired up and then they'd
realize oh every time the more expensive
restaurant the number would go up but
and then we look at it every day and I'm
a big believer I tell people all the day
is is like years get made by by
quarters, quarters by month, months by
by weeks. We live by days and and so
we're going to hit our days and we were
really relentless on that. And and then
we were like, you know, we're always on
and and you know, our our team was, you
know, seven days a week. If you're a
marketer to this day and you work for
me, you're you're somewhat almost always
on because I'm always looking. I'm
always re you know, and you know, I had
we we use Looker and they ran my CTO was
like, "You have more refreshes on your
screen." because I would refresh my
screen non-stop. How many customers I
would look every 5 seconds. It was, you
know, not a good compulsive habit. But
that's where you have to be in this if
you want. You just have to be obsessed.
>> Warming up the audiences overseas or
warming up the ads by going after the
overseas audiences that are cheaper. I
don't think I've ever heard that before.
That's that that's a really
>> unfortunately that one got solved by
Meta. So you can't that's one's no
longer available.
>> So what I wanted to ask you though, and
I know that you're an advocate of this
and how big of an impact it's had on
you. You did not do this alone though.
you weren't afraid to take on investors
into the company. How important was that
decision to let other people come in and
get a slice of the pie?
>> Well, I think the first thing I did and
I I recommend this for so many people
and you guys are a great example is I
did I first thing I did is recruited a
co-founder and I can't stress if it's
your first time uh get a co-founder. It
is a very lonely journey especially in
the early days and and and and no one
understands. Your wife won't, your
girlfriend won't, your parents won't.
You the person in the room with you will
understand the stress, the anxiety, the
all those things. And so my co-founder
Carter Commtock uh joined the journey
very early and we built this together
and and you know we we laugh today but
we we cried together back in the days
right so you know not covering payroll
not like you know all those things that
you know it's kind of funny stories now
they weren't funny at the time so first
advice is get a co-founder and then
second one that I think we did and I I
was like you know my my vision was
always like I want to build this big so
we were always like we want to get
venture and and we got amazing partners
and I you know, starting with we and you
know, and and people are always like,
"Oh, well, you you had it easy." I was
like, "Dude, we we cold called we sent
out emails to a hundred people. We sent
out a hundred. We got a hundred nos. I
pitched I mean cold call. He never
respond. I pitched Tim Ferrris. We pitch
every we we found an email. We pitch
you." Now, these people never responded.
And I know why now because our pitches
were dog crap. But we pitch we pitch. We
pitch. We got no no. Finally, literally,
this is like our 103rd pitch. Um, we
find this company brand project and we
pitched them and and so we sent them
food and and you know just serendipitous
that our bottle ficked exactly what they
were doing. Um, Andrew Bridge, Andrew
Black, Jay Body, uh, Jackie Loin was the
team and so they invested in us and they
basically became our team and so we got
to learn directly with them. We got to
build with them. Uh I Andrew Black who's
the CEO of Brand Project literally we
went on the road together to pitch the
series A you know he was in there doing
the deck and and so so he was the first
our series A was led by Bob Davis at
Highland Capital Partners. Uh Bob on our
first call post invested he said if if
anything happens bad I want to be the
first call. And he said not because I'm
telling you this but because you want to
call me because you trust that I'm going
to give you good advice. And that that
was the formation of that bond from
there. I still call Bob. I think, you
know, Bob is a hard tribe and he's he's,
you know, he's a he's if you want a
tough coach, Bob is that tough coach.
He's he's not going to pull any punches,
but I talked to Bob three, four times a
week. Um, then we brought on Jason
Finger, who's the founder of Seamless.
Seamless is, you know, was the New York
the first the early food tech guy, and
Jason was a different level of of
insight. Then we brought on Insight
Harley, who now went off and did his own
fund, Left Lane lane, uh, and Jeff
Lieberman, who's who's are there. to all
of these people around and we had like
all these different skills and all this
different mindset and it was just
amazing and you just you need great
people around the table because that's
what's going to that's what's going to
drive that's what's just going to drive
the economic value and you know at the
end of it I owned a little over 10% or a
little right at 10%. Um, so I people
would say, "Oh my god, you gave up so
much." I was like, "I would have done it
the exact same way."
>> But you still put $100 million in the
pocket.
>> I you and I got the win. And but more
importantly is is all these people made
money and it's like I was like, "Look,
if the worst thing you do in your life
is make people a bunch of money, uh,
trust me, life is going to go because
those guys follow you to the next one,
they follow you, do the same thing." And
it was a great journey and they added a
ton of value as well. When I look at
Freshly, I don't see a food company. I
see a food company disguised as a
logistics company because you're you're
delivering food all over the country.
How does that work? Is it one kitchen?
Is it multiple ghost kitchens around the
country? Could you kind of break down
how the operation actually works?
Because if we're being honest, scaling
up the ad spend on Facebook is easy. You
know, it's the click of a button, but
scaling food across the country is not
so easy.
>> Yeah. I mean, I I think, you know,
everything's complicated. So, I'd say
within this is everything. So, we were
when we sold the business, we were doing
1.1 million meals a week. A week. And
And we were doing it across four
different facilities, a little over a
million square feet of manufacturing and
distribution facilities. We were running
uh I think 15 of our own first mile
truck semis that were running 24-hour
shifts. uh we didn't do last mile
logistics so we'd hand that box um but
we had 25 20 2500 employees so
everything was just this this very
synchronized machine and but you know
the way we got there is just we hired a
bunch of people who signed up for crazy
and they were they wanted aggressive
challenges and it it didn't matter what
role you were in whether you were
finance whether you were HR whether
you're you were in our operations
everything was just nuts all the time
but we just got better every week and
that was our mindset is basis points. We
always think about things as percentage
points are the imaginary basis points
actually matter. And what I mean by that
is it's fractions of percentage points,
but we get better every day. Every day
we get a little better. You can make
them our old saying and this is my
saying I is you can make any mistake you
want. You just got to make it once. And
and so that was the thing. There's so
many new mistakes to make that we you
just couldn't afford to make the same
mistake. So no one gets yelled at for
making a mistake. You do get yelled at
for the second mistake. for the category
that Freshy was in like delivering meals
to people within two days. I feel like
when I look at that category today,
there's a lot of competitors in that
space for like Cook Unity or HelloFresh
and things like that. Back then was were
there that many competitors in this
space and if there was like how did you
guys differentiate yourselves?
>> Yeah, so we were so back then there was
like when we started there was Blue
Apron, HelloFresh, and Plate. They were
all uh send food to your house and you
cook, right? So, so I I was like, I
don't want that product. And so I I
wanted the I built the product cuz I
wanted it, which is I didn't want to do
any of the work. Now, if you want to
cook, I'm not saying that's a bad thing,
but I didn't want that. So, what I
wanted, I just wanted to heat the food
and have healthy meals. So, we made the
product for ourselves, which is like I
wanted to eat healthy. I just didn't I
didn't want to become a nutritionist,
and I certainly didn't want to become a
chef, but I wanted I wanted the benefit
of that. And so, ours was very
differentiated from the early days. Now,
it turns out ours was way harder to do.
So plated blue apron not to knock theirs
was still very difficult but ours was
10x more harder manufacturing doing the
meals doing the whole things is way
harder at scale. So a little bit of this
is like you know any good founders got
to have a ton of hubris like oh we'll
figure it out. So and and we had a lot
of that right and so we just we did that
approach now then success creates
copycats. So now then you know there was
factor and but when we sold we were 10x
bigger than our nearest competitor. So
there was there was us and then there
was everyone else. Now ultimately when
we went to Nestle um you know things
didn't go perfect and then that
ultimately went away and then there you
know big gap to fill. So it was great
for a lot of those other businesses that
were were there and and you know we had
really I mean we were doing you know
over a half billion dollars in sales. So
there was a lot of happy customers out
there who needed a new solution. When I
think about manufacturing and delivering
food to people's houses, one of the
things that comes to mind that comes to
my mind is that in some way I'm sure
that this had to be regulated and in
particular, was there any like
legislation that whether it be the FDA
had passed in some of these different
states that you were going in, right?
Cuz you had facilities all over the
country, you know, that were kind of
doing this. Was that ever like an issue
that you had to come across as time went
on?
>> A ton. So the the interesting thing is
is that this this had never so the food
codes are all very legacy based upon
going to a grocery store, right? So
everything's built for that and so there
becomes all this crazy nuance. So like
USDA versus FDA. So so we were kind of
writing the law and the benefit was is
we got to write the law and in our
writing of the law or kind of like
because we wrote opinion pieces because
that's just kind of how these things
work. you have to write, hey, this is
who we think our regulatory agency is.
And we chose the FDA because FDA is a
little easier to work with on that. And
and that so far has been kind of the the
stance, but we kind of helped say that
we believe the FDA is the right person
to regulate this. Now, what that meant
is because when you choose the FDA, you
then are actually have to operate under
the local jurisdiction health code. So,
we then had to operate under local
jurisdiction health code. So, which was,
you know, again, not rocket science.
Everyone has their own thing, but yeah,
you kind of had to to manage that. I'd
say in the early days it was really hard
because you you want someone to tell you
like go it's plan A or B and like
everyone's like we've never seen this.
So even like talking to head, you know,
pretty high up in the state of Arizona
FDA and and USDA and they're like we
don't know. Yeah.
>> And so you're kind of like well and then
we I think the good thing we were like
well if no one knows then we should just
say and and that's kind of that's been
great I think for the industry.
>> What month in 2020 did you sell the
company?
>> We sold in October of 2020. But I can
imagine I I I can imagine though like
throughout that year while you were
going through negotiating the sale then
I'm sure that you were like that could
have been the worst time for CO to
happen especially with how much that
that had impacted the mailing and
whatnot.
>> So the great thing and and again it goes
to show is like but I always tell people
it's like like it really did take a once
in a lifetime pandemic for us to sell
the business because it the pandemic was
amazing for us because we're shipping
food directly to your house.
>> Wow. That's true.
>> And people weren't going outside. So
guess what? If you if you could get
meals shipped directly to your house. So
overnight we went up 30% over I mean we
were max capacity when we sold we we
couldn't squeeze another meal out. I
mean now it was also crazy because the o
the number one thing that was was
absolutely just nuts is we're operating
2500 employees and we're asking every
regulatory agent what do you want us to
do and none of them were doing it. So we
started getting and we were
significantly ahead of the curve because
I was following what was going on in
China. And you know a lot of this ends
up being like not very productive
either. But at the time it was like we
started doing temperature screens. We
started wearing mask. Um we were
[clears throat]
 already we led our whole
thing was food safety. So we were we
were absolutely the best in food safety.
So we already had I mean we we had all
the food the protective food safety
protective you know PPE which now
everyone knows but it's like protective
all that equipment we had a ton of it
and so we so when there was all these
gaps we were already back stop because
we we believe so adamantly so we were in
a great position that like we were just
able to to really aggressively go. Um,
but like I always tell this is the thing
is like it all worked like had that
pandemic not happened, had things not
happened perfectly like you know we
definitely don't get the same exit we
got and I think you know everything came
together perfectly for us um but it was
it was pretty serendipitous.
>> Is that why you decided to to sell the
business at the time because of the
pandemic going on? Was that like the
main motivation or or what kind of led
you guys to like
>> No, I mean I think hindsight we can look
and say we we did a perfect timing to
sell. I mean, at the time we we we were
we were very bullish on the business. I
think the challenge I had as a CEO is
we'd sprinted so hard and and and then
the pandemic was just like with all the
things there was all the social unrest
and I think just as as as being a CEO
was just it was so taxing and I I was
just kind of like I I can't go another
and I I I pretty much told and the you
know my board again it's like I think
people are so negative on boards my
board was absolutely amazing. They
actually wanted to keep going and they
wanted they were really trying to
incentivize us to keep going. But I had
a conversation with with Bob Davis and
he said, "Mike, he said, "Look, we're we
want to keep going. We think this
business is great. We we'll reinvest and
do this, but if you don't want to, we're
fully supportive and let's sell the
business because we're investing in you.
We're investing in what you want to do.
Um, take 24 hours, think on it, and
whatever you do, you don't even need to
call me. Whatever you do, we're
supportive of it." Uh so that's you know
that to me was was a phenomenal board
and I think that's you know there's a
lot of trust in there a lot of loyalty
um but ultimately I think at the end of
the day you know they had to they had to
listen to me at the front and you know
my my tanks were were on on reserves.
>> Was was there a number two that you had
in mind that you were like when this
company sells I want to make this much
off the sale. Was that a factor as well?
>> I mean not as much. I I think at that
point like you know it we we sold great.
I mean, art like I wanted to sell even
and and so I didn't think this was going
to be my last like my last rodeo. I was
going to get back at it. So, I didn't
look at this as like whatever. And I
always tell people people are like,
well, you know, what's the number?
What's your So, like first of all, I'm
going to be in this game forever. So, my
my you know, I I'd love to hit the hit
the billion dollar mark, but it's fully
ego. There's nothing I'll solely say
it's like it's an ego. It's a number,
you know, like like the number that
matters the most. And I tell every
founder of this is is like, you know,
it's plus minus, but it's it's getting
10 million. And I and everyone says,
well, you know, that's that's I like
look that should be your first
watermark. And if you get to 10 million,
that kind of sets you on. And if you're
young, you can keep going. You know,
after that, I think the next big big big
watermark is like, you know, two to
three. It kind of depends on your
lifestyle, but like at I that runaway
wealth is like 300 million. So once you
get to 300 million, your lifestyle
doesn't change. Like you're flying
private, you're doing the odds, you're
doing everything. But I I just think
like for me, I love the game and like
the money is a byproduct and it
certainly is fun. You know, we're you
know, we're very I think smart with our
money. And I say we my me and my wife,
you know, the stupid thing. I I'm a
pilot and I love flying private. I love
planes. I love jets. It is a huge waste
of money. I know it's, you know, it
sells well on Instagram, but it's an
absolute waste of money. Homes is
amazing. So like spending money on your
home is like the absolute smartest thing
you can do. If you look at utility, your
prime your first home, buying a a
gorgeous house, it should be everyone's
mission. Full stop because you live
there. So 24, you know, you're you're
there all the time. The asset goes up in
value, right? So on average, your asset
is going to go up in value. So real
estate's a no-brainer. Cars, I debate.
I'm not a big car guy. I bought this
watch. It was 6,000. It's a Rolex. I
always wanted a Rolex. I said, "When I
hit a million dollars, I gota I'm gonna
get a a Rolex. I got this. I love this
watch. It means the most to me. I've set
a goal. When I when you see me wearing
gold, that's because I got a billion."
Uh, so so but for me, they're trophies.
Trophies are only important if like
there's value to them. So, you know, I
got trophies in in in my room that, you
know, I got a I won the member member at
my golf club. It's probably a $10
trophy. It means a lot to me, right? So,
this is kind of like to me, these are
like those things are trophies. Uh, real
estate's a great investment. If you make
money, invest in real estate.
>> You took the question out of my mouth. I
was going to ask you, what's the mo
what's something that's expensive that
you purchase after the sale that's
completely worth the money? And it
sounds like it's the house.
>> The house you're my my our primary house
is and and when we bought that, I mean,
me and my wife, it's our it's our dream
house. Uh now we want to dream bigger,
so we're going to do some work on that
house, but we love where we're at. We
love love the city. And so I think but
your house is like our we we have four
kids. It's our kids are there every I
wake up in that there's a good saying is
like you know you you you're going to
you're going to only sleep in one bed
every night no matter how rich you are
you wake up in you can only sleep in one
bed like that's just like so your
primary house is your number one utility
value it'll add so much and you want to
just wake up and be like I love this
house and every day I wake up uh and I
love the house I'd say that was the
smartest if you want to ask the next
question should be what's the dumbest
investment uh it it's flying private but
but it is you know it's a little bit
like
>> at what at what rate do you think it's
affordable to do that.
>> So I So when we did it when we I can
tell you my story cuz like I was like I
I was running all the numbers and I was
like what you know how how much? So, we
were like, "Okay, we're going to go like
we're going to buy like a Flexjet." And
it did a great job. And we bought 75
hours. And first of all, we didn't use
we didn't have 75 hours. But then I was
looking, I was like, "God, I'm too young
to just be torching money like that."
And that, you know, that equated into
like $700,000 a year. And I was like,
man, I was like I was like, that is just
a like I'm too young to like I should
just I need to reinvest that. So, I
would generally say for me at least, and
this is always personal, is like I think
first of all, it depends on your cash
flow. like me, I was going back into
like reinvest and everything. So I had a
cash kind of negative like and then the
other thing is is like total I I think
over
you know if you're flying a lot I'd say
you want to be you know liquid wealth
over 100 I would say but you can charter
we still charter um occasionally you
know I'd say our budgets like closer to
like you know in a year is like 100 to
like 150 like but and then actually the
best I would say this is the best
investment I ever made maybe tied with
the house uh we have 17 niece and nephew
We set up 529s, 100,000 in each one of
their 529s. So that was 1.7 and then we
later had uh 18, so 1.8 all in. That's
an absolute no-brainer. Um I wanted my
niece and nephews to gradu my I was so
fortunate. My parents led, you know, got
us to graduate college with no debt. Um
so I think that's that's a tremendous
tremendous thing that, you know, we were
really happy to do. Um
>> that's one of the things he always talks
about wanted to do right there.
>> I said that's the biggest flex right
there.
>> It's the biggest flex. And so now my
nie, one of my nieces is is working for
me, handling my social stuff and doing
all my stuff.
>> So you're not just the rich uncle,
you're the cool uncle.
>> So no, I I I know I I but she's making
she's making me cool. I'm very uncool.
But you you you pay it back and there's
nothing more exciting than helping your
family out. I think that's if you can do
that, that's obviously huge. Um you
know, there's about you know, we we very
quickly I told my wife we were going to
massively redeploy back in. So we've
redeployed back into, you know, I like
investing in myself. So we immediately
started Pet Folk. I've invested a ton of
money in that. We started Cutting Horse
which a venture capital firm. I'm you
know our largest investor there. So I
just redeployed back in and and you know
again to me is it's like I like doing
stuff and so it's it's just so much fun
doing those things get into stuff. So
you I look at it as an investment but I
also look at just having a lot of fun.
>> So So in one world you were an
investment banker in another world you
were a food m you were a food
manufacturer and now you're a
veterarian. Yes. Well, no. I will be
very cautious. I have no veterary
knowledge. My sister's a 30-year
practicing vet. Again, what I do really
good is I'm the widget guy. I'm the
behind the scenes guy. So, that's what I
get to do here. She's the front of the
house person. So, that's really fun.
Look, and and so now I've started and I
love like cuz now, you know, I'm 46,
which is is I still think young, but
relatively much older than you guys. And
so, now I was like, you know, I wasn't
in the social game. I just I was seeing
so much and I I hate being on like
Instagram and stuff like that, but I was
like I got to be part of the
conversation. And really the thing that
I I I got so excited is like for me like
every single thing in my life is because
I made the jump to do my own business
and and everything I mean I I mean
everything that's happened great for me
my my passion, my energy, my excitement,
it's all because I did that. And so I
was like, you know what my next journey
is going to be is it's all about helping
and sharing the idea of of because I
think the hard thing for people is like
like everything looks so distant, right?
And like so like yeah, I may look
distant and hard to but like I was I had
$15. This is a no [ __ ] I had $15. So
my bank account I went to state school.
So like you know I'm very I'm below
average on a lot of things. Like there's
like most people listening to this are
are starting from a higher level. It's
just achievable. And I think like my big
goal now and I started the advantage.
We're doing a podcast and we're doing
but my whole goal is I want to help
start 10,000 businesses over the next 10
year. I want to inspire people and I
want to be part of directly connected
and we're going to try to track it.
We'll see how we do it. But I I want to
help start 10,000 businesses because
[clears throat]
 I think this is the
massive unlock and again I'm a advocate.
I'm a huge fan of America. I'm a huge
huge fan of capitalism and I think this
is what we need to be promoting is that
like upward mobility is real. Um you
know it's it's not like beat up the
rich. It's it's it's it's look at those
and say like again I you know I I I have
no aspirations to be a Elon Musk or Jeff
Bezos. I love the fact that those guys
are doing what they're doing. I love the
fact that they're as motivated as they
are. Um my journey is going to look
different than theirs. But but where
where I'm saying is like if you get out
if you don't want to start a business go
join a business. Go join startups in
these different aspects. But it is the
energy passion. Build the life you want.
America is about upward mobility. I
promise it still exists. Uh I am I'm
just a great example of it and I think
you know so many people I know in the
startup world are are that so you know I
just wanted to share this journey. I
love what you guys are doing because I
think this is this is the thing is is
like you know the journey is about doing
the journeys about getting inspiring. I
think what you guys are doing is is just
bringing a lot of people on and I'll say
like there's you know for me is like
there's serendipitous moments. You can
hear something 10 times and on the 11th
it hits in a way that you're like okay
this is the one but it is repetition.
you know, you got to hear this story on
your podcast, my podcast, you know, and
so I just think it's it's a really
exciting time. You know, my advice to
people is like go do find energy, find
passion. Um, don't just judge your life
on on monetary success. Judge it on on
building the life you want. And and
you're going to just you're going to,
you know, you're going to wake you
should wake up and love the life you've
created for yourself.
>> I got I got to get some game right here.
So, you said what was the exact thing
that you you're setting up for your
niece and nephews? cuz like I think
about when I have kids, I want to set up
uh something very similar. So, what is
it?
>> The 529 account is a is an account
specifically set up uh by the
government. So, you can grow that with
no taxes and then you can draw down on
it with no taxes as long as it's going
to educational purposes. So, if you have
a kid, if you have an Eastern F, set up
a 529, put some dollars in it right
away. Um you don't you don't need to do
100,000. And if you want to gift 100, if
you want to give 10, just setting it up
for them is great. Um, it's it's, you
know, I think it also gets, you know, I
just wanted all of my niece and nephew
to see like college is and college is a
decision and I think now you you know,
I'd argue some people shouldn't be going
to college as many people should, but
I'd argue for most people that are
taking debt, you should absolutely not
go to college unless you're getting a
STEM degree. Just doesn't make sense.
And so, but what I wanted is that
optionality for for my niece and
nephews. I wanted to show now my my
oldest niece who's also working for us
at Petfolk and absolutely killing it.
She'd already graduated. So I made a
deal with her that like I'm going to
give you uh and I gifted her max we
could gift is like 33,000 a year. So we
gifted 33. So she got that um because
she'd already figured out and paid for
her stuff. And the same deal goes to
anyone else if they get scholarships.
It's their money. But I wanted them to
have the optionality. I think education
is really important if you want it. Um,
but I also think like I I would not I I
I am a huge do not go into student loan
debt. If you if you're getting a STEM
degree, I would that's the one thing I'd
say. Um, but like you know there like
life is about you can figure out I think
especially now like you can figure out
so many journeys and opportunities uh
that you know don't go to and I went to
a state school. Don't you know come out
$200,000 in debt because you got a state
degree. It's just it's not worth it. ROI
is horrible. So, what's the name of the
company that you're you're currently
building? The the veterary one.
>> Petfolk.
>> Pet Folk.
>> Petfolk. We are and we are the fastest
growing Denovo Clinic. And again, I'm
going to filter this in the Southeast.
Uh, but this is so [laughter]
great.
>> You just keep on adding filters. You can
get uh
>> Yeah. Well, it's it's like on it's like
you look at like ESPN, they they drop
like a stat. They'd be like this is the
first player in the last like 120 years
to do on a Tuesday [laughter] to to do
to go four for four with three RBI. I
think in that you can get like the great
thing I'm at least I've I play the game
now. So now now just show the cards
doesn't but so that one was was a ton of
fun. So here's the goods and the bads
and we were talking about this. You sell
your business it's great obviously
outcome strong proponent for people to
get liquidity early because it matters a
lot changes direction your life but now
all of a sudden you got to re reinvest.
And so the the next business I did I was
like I want to build a business for 30
years. I don't want to sell it. And and
so I ended up my sister who really had
the concept of of veterary me of of the
the platform we're building but I was a
pet parent so I just got a puppy in New
York and you know this is 2015 New York
has anything you know anything you want
New York has and it's usually got the
best of the best and so I get a puppy
and I'm like this is insane how bad
VetNet is how confusing it is how like
antiquated it is. So my sister tells me
her pitch I'd had some liquidity so I
was like Audrey let's do it like I'm
going to back you let's do it. So it so
once I left uh freshly I joined as a
full-time kind of co-CEOs so she could
do what she's a superstar and she's an
absolutely she's I think the world's
greatest vet. She's a superstar. She
loves veterary medicine. She she wanted
to become a vet when she was 7 years
old. This is her passion. She believes
adamantly that like she wants to put the
joy back into vet. the last 20 years in
vet has been about private equity coming
in and kind of making yeah I I don't
want to paint too broad of strokes but
just making it not a joyous thing and so
she was really like I want to make this
great and it's a service industry right
so as a pet parent well you want a happy
vet right so happy vets give the best
service you want smiles on that so for
me as I always came you know I've I
generally have gone into businesses that
I'm the first consumer and so that was
one I was like yeah I want this like I
want 247 so we're now 42 clinics that
business is growing exceptionally fast
um and but we want to build that for for
for a long time. So, it's built by vets
for vets. Uh we we want, you know, we
want to be the best platform for vets
because we believe if you can hire and
get the best vets, then you can deliver
the best service. And um and we want to
create a platform built that way. We
plan on owning this business and and and
both of us are aligned. We want to own
this business for 30 40 years. We don't
ever want to sell it. Um, it's one of
the few veterary platforms out there
that you have two co-founders that are
still managing and and and one of them
happens to be what I again I argue the
one of the best vets out there.
>> You mentioned obviously for this
business you're not really looking to
sell it. You're wanting to have it for
the long run. What's something that
you're going to do in this business that
you learned from running Freshly that
you didn't know at the time when you
were first running Freshly that you're
able to now take into this this company?
>> Yeah. So, I think I mean a few things
and and and and these are the great
things is like the things that I said
like god I wish we did this earlier. I
wish we I wish I didn't you know little
little bad habits grow and compound
especially as you're scaling. The first
the first one is is customer obsession
and and and and we we just didn't have
and and that was our fault because we
were growing so quick and it's easy to
make excuses and be like, "Oh, the
customer's wrong. We're right." And and
so and but the problem is is as that
scales, it doesn't it scales it scales
not the way you want it to be. And I
what what we were always is like
explaining our misses, right? First
being like, "No, no miss is acceptable.
None." And so so with with Pet Folk, we
set an insanely high NPS. So NPS is how
net promoter score. It's how you
generally it's like industry of how you
you measure customer satisfaction. And
we said we're going to be an 80. There's
there's like Apple's like a 73. Like no
one's at 80. It's like it's a very hard
number to have. And and so we said we're
going to be at 80 where every single day
we're going to be above 80. And we
measure it. We measure it religiously.
We're at an 87 right now. We are very
fanatical on it. Which means you have to
be just obsessed with customer means one
bad one bad review. one and I'm talking
like you know last you know we saw
several thousand appointments and one
bad review will take you below that 80
right so you just got to be absolutely
laser obsessed so that was one two was
defining who you are from the get- go
and and I think what we what you can try
to do early is you want to be like
founders and and and and like you want
to be right for everyone and so the
mistake there is like is like you want
to be right for the right person and and
you want you want people to self- select
out if it's not the right thing so we
defined what our culture was and we
defined it early that this is you know
we defined our first culture was around
sweat which was because we wanted to
tell people this is hard work and if
you're looking for like an easy cuz it
it was hard and we wanted to encourage
and then now it's best and and and and
best first and foremost starts with best
medicine so our B is best medicine we
make every decision best medicine we
expect that uh E uh efficient uh we we
like we believe in like we really are
data focused we are highly focused on
that um s stronger as a team. So
everything's about teamwork, right? Uh
and so so e sorry excellence not
efficient excellence and and it's this
like selfacc accountability. Everyone's
got to be excellent. S strong as a team.
So even though we're a team, it's kind
of like we want to be a we want to be a
pro sports team. We want to win. Well,
everyone's got to do their job. We all
got to be excellent, but then we got to
be excellent together. And then T was
transparency. And so so for us, what we
do is we state who we are. That's who we
are every day. We expect excellence. We
measure oursel. We we we try to get a
little better every day. And if that's
not you, that's okay. But this isn't
going to be the right culture for you.
If you really do want to get better
every day, if you want to get
challenged, no matter what your role is,
but then the B is best medicine. So
everyone in the organization, whether
you're a marketer, whether you're a
finance, everyone knows that our mission
is best medicine. So, so don't ever make
a decision that's not going to come out
for the best medical outcome. And so by
defining who you are, it really says
this is how we're going to show up. Now,
do we show up perfectly? No. every day
we show up and we make mistakes, but we
hold ourselves accountable to that. And
I think that's those are the things I
always tell young founders is like spend
the time and define your culture. Again,
there's there's I always like to use the
the radical examples. There's, you know,
there's [clears throat] Patagonia,
right? Very successful brand done
absolutely amazing. There's there's
SpaceX or Tesla, right? Very different
different cultures. What it's going to
take to succeed there is very different.
No one's right or wrong, but the person
who should join who wants to join
Patagonia should definitely not join
Tesla. And the person who wants to join
Tesla should definitely not join
Patagonia. They're going to be a fish
out of water. And so it's like choose.
And that's what when founders do that,
they say this is who we are and then
live by it because I also think people
will create these fancy like words that
feel good. You know, we're accepting and
it's like what does accepting mean? Like
I don't like what does that mean?
Because like so we try to just be like
here's who we are um and live by. Those
are the two biggest things I would say.
you were speaking our language on the
way over here today in particular. We
were talking about the city and in its
importance where the entrepreneur
decides to live. You know, I argue that
what I think is more important than a
college degree is the actual city that
you decide to live in after high school.
In our case, like moving from the DC
area to Austin, I always preach is one
of the best decisions that we ever made.
So, when you look at the landscape of
business in today's world, obviously you
live in New York City, you're from
Arizona. Where do you think are some of
the best cities that if you're if you're
a young entrepreneur in today's world
that you would immediately get to? Well,
so I think it's it's different for the
industry you want to be in. So if you
were more of looking at like you're an
influencer, you want to be around that
crypto, those things 100% Miami, you got
to be down in Miami. That's where that's
popping. You you like Miami is growing
in different aspects, but that's kind of
the core there. Maybe LA as well there.
You can get a little offshoot there, but
I think Miami is going to be the net
grower there. I think people are going
to continue to move there. uh CPG, uh
consumer products, services. I think, um
you could kind of be Austin, LA, New
York are all good hubs there. Austin
definitely has a buzz going. There's a
lot of stuff going there. If you tech,
you got to be in San Francisco still. I
mean, New York can be a you could still
be successful as a number two. It's
like, you know, 70% San Francisco, 29%
New York. The rest of the country is 1%.
So like and I I think the whole thing
about life is that you and this is this
is so many things is like life is about
the 10 people you put around you, right?
And and so you so you and you can create
these subcategories of different aspects
of your life, right? So you can talk
about your friends and your family and
your wife and and what those people look
like because that's going to be how you
show up in in that occasion. And you
think about business and and if you have
10 of the best people in an industry,
you're going to get better at that
industry because you you just you're
going to be challenged. you're going to
see. And so what I love about New York,
and I think still New York is is just
the general catchall of highly
motivated, highly talented people.
They're, you know, from from all over
the world, people are coming here to
make their mark. And so I was, when I
first moved to New York, like I I grew
up in a small town south of Tucson,
Arizona, a tiny little town called
Cenoida. Um, and then Tucson for
college. And I moved to New York and it
was like, "Oh my god, like these guys
are reading books." Like no one [ __ ]
reads books for them. Like, so I was
just getting constantly challenged like
they're running marathons. So, I was
just constantly challenged to like do
better. And I think like that for me was
really inspiring. I think it's always
good to get out of like get out of your
comfort zone, too. So, like, you know,
if you're in LA, move to New York. If
you're in Austin, you know, cuz like
shaking it up, but like yeah, being in
that area, being around people that are
are motivated, excited. Um, and and I
think, you know, that's what I think you
guys do a phenomenal job, you know,
copying you guys is like, you know,
you've created a world where you get to
interact with people that are doing
different things is like you just like
stealing free information, right? And
so, so that's just kind of the game in
life is like just get people around you
and proximity is king, right? So, you
still like, you know, you guys are are
flying all around the world to meet
people and it's awesome, but like if
they're in your backyard, it's a lot
easier, right? So you guys are in
Austin, it's a lot easier for you to
connect with founders in Austin and you
do it on a on a regular basis. And then
life just about reps, right? So I just
believe like life's more basic than
people give it credit. But it's like get
a lot of great people around you, get a
lot of reps around them, um, learn from
them, borrow, and and you're going to do
great things.
>> Absolutely.
>> Mike, we like to end these podcasts off
with two questions for our guest. I'll
I'll start and Jack will finish this off
here. So, Mike, if everyone at this
table were to die tomorrow, but you
could leave one more guiding principle
with the younger generation with
everyone tuned in right now, what would
that be?
>> Uh, stop giving a [ __ ] I really think
you guys are the generation of caring
too much. Uh, no one gives a [ __ ] Like,
stop. So, stop caring as much. Just kind
of like
release the pressure on yourself and
you'll find that life's a lot more
enjoyable and and you you know, it's
just like and then and then do hard the
the last thing is do hard work. And I
know a lot of people are saying this,
but like hard work is the most
fulfilling thing. Doing hard work, doing
things that like God, I didn't even have
a time to think about how unhappy I was
because I was just, you know, it's like
you find that rewarding. So I I do hard
work, stop giving a [ __ ]
>> Absolutely. And Mike, with the life and
career that you've led so far, how do
you want to be remembered?
>> The only people I care if they that I
want to be remembered by is my wife, my
kids, and I would say a a small aster.
Uh everything else is is is going to
have fun. I hope my wife and my kids
think I'm a great husband, a great
father. Uh I hope my friends think I
showed up when they needed me to. And if
I do if if that's all that if I check
those boxes, I'm going to die a happy
man. I probably will die a happy man
regardless because that generally is
just a happy person. But I think that's
all that matters. Your legacy, you know,
and in you know, legacy doesn't matter.
I'll be under the ground. I want my wife
and kids to just to to absolutely be
like he he worked his ass off to try to
>> to be a good dad and be a good husband.
And if I do that, you know, I I was
lucky my parents did that. And if if I
can do that as successfully as they did,
I'll be pretty happy.
>> And you're a Christian as well. Has that
faith helped you out?
>> Yeah, I think I mean, look, I think for
everyone, I think religion just gives
you perspective on on on life. I I
generally think like religious is a
personal thing, but I think everyone
should have some degree of of religion
because I think it gives you
perspective. Um, and I think to some
degree it's humility and and then
discipline. And I I think all all of
those things are really important for
people. Um, you're not the most
important thing. uh there is something
more important than you. Uh the world,
you know, there is some craziness that
we don't know what's going on, but it
does feel like there is some kind of
master plan out there. Um and then spend
a little time to reflect. So again, I
grew up a Catholic. Um you know, and and
so what I and I love about Catholic
Catholicism is that like it's it's it's
repetition. It also works in my mind,
but it's it's and I think like going I
take my kids to mass. I say prayers with
my daughter every night. And I I think
it's reflection. And I think that's just
a thing that's being missed on on life
now is like principle, reflection,
discipline, and again, you can you can
get it a lot of places, but religion
does a great job. Uh shared bonds, you
know, you go in there and and you know,
Christianity, but all all sorts of
religions, you have those shared bonds.
Um and yeah, so I think it's I think
it's hugely important. Uh it also gets
you through the tough times, right? And
I I do you know one of my and I'm going
to probably bastardize quote but we'll
leave it on this but I think like you
know it's like the [clears throat] story
coming back and and the guy talking to
Jesus and he's looking at his path and
he says you know Jesus you know all the
all the times all the tough times in my
life you know you you know you were you
you were we had two footprints and then
and then it became one and you left me.
Why did you leave me at those toughest
times? And and he says you know I didn't
leave you. I was carrying you. And I I
do think that's what religion does do.
It's an it's something you can fall back
on during those tough times to get you
through. And and I think, you know,
that's that just generally I think it's
it's important period. Um I think it's
makes for a better society as well if
you got some, you know, people anchored
in something.
>> Yeah, Mike, this was an incredible
conversation. We appreciate you coming
on the podcast. I love this.
>> I love what you guys are doing. You guys
are rocking it, too. And I I look, I I'm
so inspired. I think, you know, I think
this kind of like influencer kind of
like ecosystem is so massive. It's it's
the future. The old way, and I was I was
saying this to someone. And I was like,
the old way was you'd create the
product, then you'd have to market it.
Now you create the marketing engine.
Then you have so many products. So, you
know, I love what you guys are doing. I
love what others like you are doing.
Congratulations. I'm learning a lot from
you guys. Uh follow all you guys. You
guys are doing an awesome job.
>> Thank you, my friend. And for everybody
tuning in right now, be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content, amazing
episodes coming every week with the
incredible entrepreneurs on the Hard
Knocks podcast. We're going to put the
links down in the description to go
follow along with all of Mike's social
media. That way you can stay tuned with
his journey and building his next
billion-dollar company. Lastly, we're
going to put a link down in the
description to join the number one
entrepreneur community in the entire
world, the school of mentors, where
every single week we host live calls
with the 8, 9, and 10 and 11 figureure
entrepreneurs we interview on this
podcast. Would you do a live call and
mentor our audience at some point? Would
you make that happen? If you guys if you
guys want to get access to live calls
every single week, waste no more time.
Go down, click the link in the
description to join our school
community. We can't wait to see you on
the inside. And with that being said,
we'll see you in the next episode.