It's safe to say dry cleaners made you a
multi-millionaire.
I was printing money. How much money
were you making a month at its peak?
Cash, probably 250k. The business is
running. And at the peak and the height
of your career within the dry cleaning
business, you decide to sell and move on
to a different venture. I saw FaceTime,
right? And I was like, what if that was
monetizable? What if you could do a call
and get paid for it? What's been the
most challenging part of running a tech
startup? I didn't know that ads was
stacked against me for being Latino. And
I look it up one day and said 2% of
Latino companies get funded. That is
literally like me telling you that
you're going to surgery and your chances
of survival 2%. Would you get the
surgery? See, you've gone to try and get
investors. You've been told no. How many
times? A couple hundred times already.
So, have you learned a lot about
psychology after going to a lot of
investors? Yeah. The hard ones are the
millionaires and billionaires. Their
favorite question was the But that one I
love because that's when I get them
because I said, "Well, if you die
tomorrow and you could leave one guiding
principle with the younger generation,
what would that be?
Do you guys remember this video? Sir,
question for you real quick for 30
seconds. I have one of the biggest
business media channels in the world. We
got 11 million followers. We really
don't. Wait, right here. Let me get you.
Can I get you? Let me get you. How old
were you when you made your first
million? Honestly, that was not too long
ago. That was actually like maybe 10
years ago. But then it switched. I sold
everything and now I'm starting over
with an app, actually. Yeah. So, you got
to have some balls to do this [ __ ]
Like, so what line of business were you
in? I used to be in the dry cleaning
business. I had 10 dry cleaners in
Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. That's incredible. Hugo, why did
you stop to do the interview with me?
Tell the people. I honestly stopped for
you because I felt the guy in front of
you was super rude. And since I follow
you on Instagram, I know you guys brand
is super dope. And I was wondering to
myself, does this guy even watch
Instagram? Like, does he know this brand
is actually fire? And I found it
disturbing that he was so dismissive.
I'm like, why wouldn't he stop? And I
had an interview to go to. I was being
interviewed by Fintech in the Florida
stock exchange. I said that right. They
can wait. They're indoors. He's
outdoors. And I'm glad that I did
because what happened after
it's been nuts. It's been like an
avalanche.
That's how good that interview was that
you guys changed the pace of my app. And
even me, people see me on the stream,
they go, "You're the dry cleaning guy."
I'm like, "That's funny." So, yeah, a
lot of things changed. Why do you think
that first guy didn't stop?
I have no idea. I guess lack of
knowledge and thinking he's too cool.
Honestly, I don't want to say something
bad. I don't know, maybe he has some
personal problems, but I just felt it
was unnecessary to be that rude. There
was no need. He could have said, "Look,
I can't. I'm really busy." But he was
very dismissive. And I was saying to
myself, why would you do that?
You know, this young man's out here
hustling, trying to make things happen,
and it's not like you guys don't make us
win. We win with you guys. When you
interview us, we become rock stars. And
I just couldn't understand it because I
know your platform and it's a real
thing. I let the mayor waiting in
Mullen, Texas 2 and a half hours to be
on your live and I made way 2 and 1/2
hours. I said, "I'm sorry. I have a
commitment." And he was good with that.
He was like, "No, I'm good. Do what you
got to do." So yeah, I was happy that I
stopped. It was probably the best
decision I made in my life. I remember
people telling me that was godscent.
There's just no way that you were going
for an interview and he happened to be
there. It was so unbelievable that
people thought it wasn't real. People
said, "You sure that was a stage?" I
said, "Would I be wearing that grandma
hat if I thought it I would have been
wearing my Yankee hat looking super
dope?" It's funny. So, I thought that
was funny. That's amazing. For everybody
that is tuned in right now, welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh.
And we've got an incredible guest for
you guys out in New York City, Mr. Hugo
Sanchez. I had the pleasure to interview
him a little while ago. the dry clean
mogul. Started out in the dry cleaning
business and now you're building the
next billion dollar tech startup for
those that don't know. Modi is the name
of it. Modi. I want to take us back. I
want to kind of set the tone here. The
day that you opened up your first dry
cleaning business, the first dry
cleaner. Why did you decide that to be
the business that you started before
building your empire? So, that's funny,
right? I was a developer real estate.
Yeah. I was a developer doing um
restorations all building with cast iron
trying to get these buildings to be
platinum certified or gold certified by
using 50% of the products that it had
the regular choices refurbishing the
floors but I had to wear suits. My
company required me to wear suits and
every week I'm sending about five suits
and I'm saying why am I paying $30 a
suit? So, I'm in Cos one day with my
wife's shopping and I run in not to the
owner but to one of the pressers and I
said, "Hey, Danny, let me ask you a
question." I go, "I'm not trying to but
what does it actually cost to clean a
suit?" He goes, "Oh, it's about a dollar
for the vest and a dollar for the
pants." I said, "Then why the hell am I
paying $30?" He goes, "That's pretty
much it." He goes, "I get he says, "I
get 80 cents a piece." That means when
it comes out the the the perk machine,
he gets 40 cents a item to press it on
the presser.
So figure these machines do 75 lbs to 80
lb. You can get a machine that does 100
pounds. He's only getting paid 80 cents.
It might be more now. Might be a dollar
something, but he's getting paid 80
cents to put the press to a hanger and
I'm paying $30. You do the math. My man
just started running wild. I was like,
I'm in the wrong business. So, I told
him, "Hey, Danny, I'll give you 15% of a
business. Find me a company that has all
the equipment, a dry cleaners that has
all the equipment pre-existing,
already functioning. I'll buy it out
cash cuz I had the money."
He found me one in two weeks in Bushwick
in Brooklyn. I said, "I'm in." I went
into told the lady, "Listen, I know you
went out. You want to retire. I want to
keep everybody cuz I need them to
educate me how this works."
As I was starting the business, I
realized that the community wasn't
enough. It wasn't sustainable. But now I
live on the other side. I live in
Williamsburg in the doorman building.
Every week I see the doorman every day
put 30 40 bags out his people's laundry
in the building and they're sending moy
to a cleaners. I'm like, wait, why don't
I have that contract?
So I spoke to the resident manager. I
said, I'll do the dry clean for free for
the doormen if you let me put my bags in
here. And I don't want to take nobody's
business. If they have a bad experience
with the cleaners, can I get recommended
since I live in the building?
One building, one up to two to one up to
10. It jumped 80%. Then I had all the
buildings calling me, "Yo, you do same."
Say, "And you do the door man for free?"
I'm like, "Yeah, you put my bags in
there. I do the dormance uniform for
free. Cost me 80ents.
Now I have access to a building that has
400 apartments."
It was a simple math for me. I needed
the location. It doesn't matter if the
community wasn't enough to sustain it. I
could step out of the community and get
door man buildings cuz even though
everybody has a washer and dryer, you
can't put your suit in water. It has to
be done in this chemical called perk.
It's like a oil.
So, I already knew the numbers were
there. $30 to them was nothing. They're
out the country half the time. They come
back, they give you the whole briefcase.
I want everything clean. I mean, there's
socks in here. Clean it. I said, "Okay,
but you're paying $18 for a pair of
socks. That's pretty insane.
So, I knew it was a good business and it
was a really good business. It's just
really hard. It's a really hard
business. It's hard work and sometimes
you have to close your cleaners. Let's
say you can't put air conditioning in
dry cleaners because of the
presspiration of the So, if the the wall
starts sweating, then the clothes get
wet. You can't do that. So, you can only
put roof vents just push the heat out.
And sometimes it could get 105 degrees
in there. So, there's some laws.
Anything over 100 you got to close down.
So it you got to be prepared for that
that when you're in there it's like
putting your face in an oven.
So you you bought the business for
40,000 correct? Yeah. What were some of
those initial challenges of getting
those just getting that business off the
ground? Well the business was off the
ground but it was just making it was
making the rent and making the payroll
and I'm like this is not scalable.
I was like, why is it that the community
is not even coming to drop the stuff
off? Because the square footage was
there. All the equipment, a uni press, a
unipress is a shirt machine, you know,
perk machine, uh, five pressing machines
and, um, four washers and four dryers.
Because, believe it or not, and this is
the craziest thing, people take their
button-d down shirts, unless they're
black, dark brown, they go in water.
And a wash and press means it comes out
wet and it goes in a machine that has
these metal plates and it presses your
shirt.
So that cost 40 cents cuz you could put
like 200 shirts in a big washer and then
the machine does all the heavy lifting.
It does the cuffs, the it's a called the
cuff and collar and then a body plate to
drive the machine to the hanger. The
average person, let's say it takes a
minute, can knock off anywhere between
60 to 80 shirts an hour for an 8 hour
shift. you're knocking off five 600
shirts that you're doing for $1.99.
Yeah, the numbers are there. There's a
uh there's a really good book called The
Go-Giver. And in the book, it basically
describes the mentality of like, hey, if
I provide value to somebody else first,
then it will help me win in sales, in
business. And it seems that you've had
this mentality throughout even when you
first started in the dry cleaning space
where you're like, "Hey, I'll do the
door man for free. if somebody has a bad
experience, let me do their laundry for
free and I'll do their dry cleaning for
free. And even with the interaction with
James with the interview, it was just
like, man, this guy blew him off. Let me
do the interview for him. And it comes
around tenfold 100%. In in business,
like where where have you developed
that? Because I feel like there's so
that was a great question. there there's
there there's there's so there's so many
people out there that are so entitled
saying just like man like what you know
I I I should have so many more sales
things like that but they don't they
don't take the initiative to go out and
show the world the value that they're
willing to provide and and really you
know where did you develop that well
think about this right my mother was a
hair stylist she didn't have this
extravagant job my father was a
carpenter that's why I I w up in the
project managing buildings right so
that's why my career come from watching
my father but my mother was a hair
stylist And a hair stylist is a
therapist. They sit all day and listen
to [ __ ] all day while they're getting
their hair done. But I I understood the
value of doing something and not
something for something, just doing
something of being of service. Think
about this. If I know that whole outfit
only cost me 60 cents to clean, why
can't I do it for free? It's 60.
Water bottle cost more these days. Fiji
cost like $3 a bottle of water. So I
believe that if you do something and and
my mentor told me that and I had a hard
time understanding why he said if you
were a thousand nos away from the yes
you need it. How quick would you get
those nos? So being of service is
simple. We these people believe that
everybody's transactional these days and
that worries me. If I do this what do I
get? How about you just do it because
you can.
So, I believe that my phone has 3,000
numbers and if there's somebody there
that you need to speak to, I'm going to
get you on that call because being of
service is what man does. If you look at
way back, forget what the world we live
in now. Let's go back 100 years, 200
years. One farmer did corn, the other
had cattle, the other they had to
barter. There was no exchange. There was
an exchange of food to get through the
winter.
They were of service to each other. They
relied on each other to survive. And I
think man is forgetting that that we
have to be of service to each other. And
it cost nothing to be kind to you. Cost
me nothing. And when I s do that to
James, I was like, what the [ __ ] is
wrong with you? This young man's eyes
freezing outside and he's all day trying
to make you look like a [ __ ] rock
star and you're going to conduct
yourself like that? That's unacceptable
to me. It just No. I'm of service and if
you ask me to help you, it cost me
nothing to help. It's like when you ask
your friends, I'm moving to a new place
and you get five or six of your friends
to help bring everything down. There's
no paying them. Those are your boys.
Help me get my [ __ ] down and get me to
my next place. Maybe we'll get a box of
pizza if I have enough. And I think
we've forgotten that. I honestly believe
that we've forgotten to be kind to each
other. And that actually bothers me a
lot. You mentioned that your mother was
a hair stylist, your dad was a
carpenter, so you didn't come from
tremendous amounts of wealth growing up.
Man, we barely made it. We barely made
it. My mother used to be on her feet
sometimes 14, 16 hours a day. And it was
just enough to get enough rice and beans
and a fried egg on a plate. When you
don't come from nothing, you're not
really disappointed in things because
you understand what is not to have. And
I know that a lot of people don't
understand that, but don't have nothing
and you appreciate everything, even the
smallest gestures. Were you close with
them? Yes. Yeah. My father was very
strict. He was a old veteran, Navy
veteran, and he was a straight arrow.
What were some values that they kind of
instilled in you that you kind of
carried with you to this day that you
would, you know, pass on to other people
as well? My father used to tell me,
right, so being a carpenter, you might
get you might be off someday. You know,
you price a job, but until you open that
wall, then the price change, [ __ ] got
ugly. My father would never change the
price. If he told you that was 300 and
he had to put 150 out of his pocket, he
took it as a loss. He misjudged it and
he ate it. He never took it back to the
customer.
So he always told me, you know, if you
make a mistake, don't bring it to the
customer. It's not his fault.
That's your fault.
So I learned a lot from that. I was
like, wow. So you're willing to lose
$150? It wasn't the It was his integrity
and his word. Back then, my father
didn't do contracts. We shook hands. I
told you $3,000 to build this whole room
out. And if I walked over with 500
because I misjudged, I'm okay. I left
for something. And I saw how happy said,
"Look, I left for something. I didn't
lose." I was like, "Okay, maybe I maybe
that's something to, you know, to learn
like if you make that mistake, don't
push it on the customer, you know." And
that that's always stuck to me, you
know, like I used to see my mother dye
somebody's hair and it was only like $25
back then. That [ __ ] took four hours.
Can you imagine one of these kids
painting somebody's hair now for for
$25? They've had to kill you. They will
not do it. But my mother did it all day,
every day,
just for 25 bucks. And that's what the
tip included. 4 hours. Can you imagine
that? That's less than minimum wage.
But she was happy because she had a job.
My father was happy because he had his
next job. And sometimes, look, we're
going to make mistakes. Nobody told me
when I built Modi that my chances of
getting funded were 2%.
I don't know if I would have had a
second thought, but I didn't know that
either. That getting funded as Latino,
Hispanic, my chances of getting funded
is 2%.
It's too late now. I'm all in. I raised
a million dollars for my friends. I
don't get to quit. I don't have the
luxury to say, "Yo, I can't do this
anymore."
That's not the way it works. I took your
money. I have to get up every day and be
the Modi man. And that is it. I don't
get to quit. That's not fair to you. You
went into your 4K. You took a student
loan or whatever it is that you took me
to get me to a million dollars.
So, I get up every day saying, "I can't
quit because I raised a million dollars
for my friends."
And that's a tough pill to swallow when
know you're responsible for your
friend's money,
but I manage. So when you had that first
dry cleaning location, how did you scale
up beyond that? Like what were some of
the challenges you faced? What was the
direction? How did you scale beyond that
one location? So the one location that
was the plant. I knew right away that
owning a cleaner wasn't the key. It was
the plant because things need to be
clean and processed.
But I also learned that those machines
are not allowed in new communities like
in Williamsburg because they're
chemicals and you have to be on the
first floor and there can't be an
apartment over you cuz those chemicals
give cancer. A lot of them give cancer.
So being four miles out allow me to do
what those other cleaners can. But then
I saw pop-up cleaners. They look like a
cleaners but vans used to come and pick
up the stuff. I was like all I got to do
is drop a bunch of pop-ups now. And
that's what I started doing. One in 180
Gretch, one in this block, one on that
block, but all concentrated in
Williamsburg cuz some people still like
to go down and give instructions. I'm
missing a button. This has a particular
stain. Some people don't want to put
their stuff in a bag. But I knew I only
needed 500 ft for that. That kept my
rent low. If you could keep the cost of
rent low and you only need like three
girls to manage the store, three
different shifts because you could get
kids that go to school. They're only
tagging and bagging. It's pretty simple.
You could scale quickly. The only way to
scale is if you have the factory to
clean. You cannot scale with just a
glass unless you go to a factory and
say, "Hey, I'm just trying to make 25%
margins, you know, and even that that
takes a challenge, right? Because that's
what you got to do." Did you have some
of those partners like some other like
other cleaners that wanted to use your
factory? Yeah. But that came
organically. Yeah. Once they knew that I
I've cornered the market, they're like,
"Shit, I'm going to have to go to Hugo."
So, you had a moat. Yeah. So, so they
knew that vertical integration. But I go
to show you, right? What do you think
the my cleaner's first name was? If you
had to take a guess, what is one thing
that connects with each other? And
satellite. It was called satellite
cleaners because they all have to
communicate with each other to get
information down. It didn't matter what
my other cleaner's name, but my main one
was called satellite cleaners for a
reason, cuz that's one thing they do
together in space. They all work
together to get information and collect
data. So that's why I need the people
say why did you pick satellite? I said
because that's the one thing in the
space that has to work. All of them have
to work together to get a certain amount
of information.
So that's what I knew was key. I was
like this is not about having 20
cleaners. So it's about having a factory
and knowing how to process and say how
do I get 10 more cleaners and not [ __ ]
this up. You just change the tags. He's
got a black shirt. This cleaner is going
to have white shirt tags. The other
cleaner is going to have pink shirts.
The other clean is going to have blue
tags. So, what that does, it's like a
serial number. If you got dry clean, you
see there's a like a little serial
number on there.
The colors help you divide the clothes
faster. Even though they all go into the
same machine, you could divide
satellites clothes, bre's clothes,
because they all have different colors.
Then you look for the red tag. Those are
the rush orders, which is a bigger tag
that says rush. So once you divide all
the cleaners by color, then you look for
the rush tags cuz those are going out
the same day. Then you separate those
clothes and those get pressed first.
Once those are out, then everything is
automatic. It just falls in place
automatic. You could line up a cart in
each one of your pressers and say you're
doing this cleaners, you're doing this
cleaning, you're doing this cleaners. So
he's matching now receipt. Now they're
reading numbers. Now he's matching. He's
got all satellites. So he doesn't have
to go back and forth. Oh, I'm running to
Gretch. I'm doing this. Well, you got
all satellite stuff. You got old Gretch
stuff. You got old brothers stuff. So,
all you got to do is those 18 tags of
brothers is look at the numbers. And
sometimes you don't have to look at the
numbers. You can read it says one suit.
It's only one suit in there. Figure it
out. You press that and put it on there.
We pass the plastic and then it goes
out.
So, the idea is understanding how to
divide things, uh, color coin things
because the numbers are very confusing
and they're hard on your eyes. So for
me, I realized that changing the colors
on every cleaners made things simplified
super easy. So that's how I I I found
the win. How much money were you making
a month at its peak?
I was printing money
out of you. Um cash probably 250k in
profit a month. No, that just cash. Um
credit cards. Remember I had door man
building stuff. Nobody pays in cash.
Their credit cards on file. So you were
making a lot of money. I was printing
money and a lot of you that [ __ ] was
like crazy. But the thing that's so
fascinating to me about this in you is
that we're talking about the dry
cleaning business here. It's a very
unsexy business like on paper or when
you when you tell people I'm in the dry
cleaning business like but I think
that's fascinating that you were able to
make so much money off of it. Do you
recommend people think about unsexy
businesses as opposed to trying to go
out and reinvent the wheel? I had the
same question.
every all the kids say like they want
this this this this business that's like
super exciting and and drop shipping and
ecom and this is the thing right they
don't want to do the work right
so there's two ways to look at cleaners
when you set them up right if I don't
know if you guys know Staten Island it's
all houses right it's all houses I would
never put a cleaners there because I
know is critical that is super critical
so there's two ways to look at it if I'm
in a lowinccome community right where
there's more projects more stuff.
They're not allowed washers and dryers
and people spend a lot of money in their
clothes there. So, they're going to tend
to bring their stuff to the cleaners cuz
their clothes are expensive. No. In the
lower income communities, yes, people
buy Why is that?
I would like to say it's a mindset. If I
can't get a Lamborghini, I can have a
dope ass Louis Vuitton outfit.
Interesting. Interesting. You know, you
know, I it would be weird for you to
have a Lamborghini there, you know, but
if you could get really nice clothes so
you can go out and have a nice job, then
you concentrate on the clothes you need
so you could get better cuz, you know,
if you dress better, you feel better,
you do better. So, I think the mindset,
if I look better, I will do better, you
know? So, they tend to buy very
expensive clothes there. So, that's
automatic. But when you look at a
middle-ass neighborhood, right? They
want to go to church on Sundays, a baby
shower every two years, maybe a birthday
party, and they have a wash and dryer in
their basement by the garage. They're
not really going to do dry cleaning. So,
it's kind of kind of tricky there. But
you go to a neighborhood that's flooded
with buildings,
they don't have washer and dryers.
So, they're going to either go to the
laundry mat, wait by the pound, or do
themselves on a Sunday. But all that
good [ __ ] that's going to the cleaners.
You better believe that. So, the
population of where you put your
cleaners, super important. When I go buy
a cleaners, the first thing I do is walk
five blocks in every direction. You know
why five blocks? Because I know you're
not going to carry your clothes more
than five blocks in your hand. You're
going to get tired.
So, I walk like a cross. Five blocks
this way, five blocks this way, five
blocks this way. And if there's a
cleaners on the block, the first thing I
go in is, "Let me get a price sheet."
And you're already lost
because I don't really need the price
sheet. I know I could beat you cuz I got
the factory.
So, chances are you either team up with
me or you're out. It's safe to say dry
cleaners made you a multi-millionaire.
Maybe a million. I would say multi. I
mean, that's a number that you I don't
even know what multi means. Like, where
you have to be at to be a
multi-millionaire, but I would say if
you're willing to put the work, you can
make a good living out of dry cleaning,
but it's a lot of work. And you lose
somebody's [ __ ] they flip the [ __ ] out.
They'll tell you that that shirt is
their life. They couldn't sleep losing
that shirt. It gets crazy. But the thing
is, understand the customer, put the
name, brand of the shirt inside the
system, scan the QR code on the shirt
because if you lose it, you want to be
able to replace it, and then give them a
credit for like $40, $50, which is
really like $3, bro. It really is $3
worth of dry cleaning. Give them a good
credit. Tell them that you ordered a new
shirt, that you ever get to skew. And
the reality is that shirt probably is
$10 now. So, be responsible and take
responsibility for [ __ ] up somebody's
shirt. times the machines are a little
tough and I can rip a shirt apart, but
the idea is tell the customer that you
ordered a new one and you also gave them
a credit. The whole they just relaxed
after that like, "Okay, this is cool."
You know, dry clean customers are tough,
bro. They're super tough on you. You
know, they want you to save a shirt
that's unsavable. And sometimes you got
to tell them the truth like, "Look, I
can't take it because if it breaks and I
think a lot of people don't read the
ticket, it sends I only have to pay you
10 times what you paid. So, if you pay
$3, I only got to give you 30 bucks and
they're like, "Oh, that shirt cost me
$200." I get that, but I only charge you
$3 to clean it. And the rules are the
rules. I only got to give you 30 bucks.
So, I try not to stick to that because
people just get super offended. I'd
rather just replace the [ __ ] shirt. I
don't want to lose a customer of a
shirt, you know? But the idea is, yeah,
you have to find the right block. And
the best blocks that I found are blocks
that have a lot of buildings, not
houses. To me, I wouldn't do a block
that has houses. I don't see the win.
But a building that has 30 apartments,
40 apartments, to me that's a score, you
know. So, yeah, you have to be a little
smart about this and understand what dry
cleaning is. And you don't have to be a
scientist, but be practical. If this
only houses on this block, why would
they go to the cleaners if not more than
once a month? Your background is in real
estate development and then you moved
into a really like although maybe boring
business, it seems like there's a lot of
logistics behind actually making a
successful dry cleaning business work.
when you're going about like acquiring
new locations and new storefronts or
even the factory, when you're making the
acquisition, are you getting the team
that's running the actual business or
are you having to replace the entire
operation within there? So, here goes
where it gets interesting, right? If you
buy a cleaner to a pre-existing team
inside, they're the ones that'll help
educate you. They'll tell you what the
price points are, where the losses are,
how much a hanger cost, how much the
wrap, you know that little wrap they put
on that you can't open the when they
give you 10 pieces, you're like, you
can't open this [ __ ] They'll tell you
down to the clips of the sleeves that
they cost a penny.
Owning the factory, you get to set the
pace of the pricing. So just because I
have $30 on this block in Bushwick, it
might be only $18.
It's more community based off of you
having access, right? Because my rent on
a 500 square foot in Bushwick is maybe
only 1,500, but in Williamsburg it's
8,000.
Do you understand? That's the difference
that if I'm in Williamsburg, I may pay
8,000 for that same 100 500 square f
feet, but I'm guaranteed about a grand a
day in collecting clothes. That's still
30,000 a month. That's fascinating. So,
you get to dictate the prices because
you own not only the storefront, but you
also own the delivery as well, the
factory. Exactly. And there's two type
of deliveries, right? You want to do
your first delivery at 7 in the morning.
Not delivery, pickup. You want to pick
up at 7 in the morning because those are
going to go back by 5:00. your second
pickup, which people that wake up later
and work from home, they drop their bag
around noon when they go get coffee and
stuff, do a second pickup around 12.
That allows you to get everybody cuz
those clothes are going out in the
morning.
So, you constantly look like you're
under 24 hours. Even if you're not, you
feel like you only have 24 hours drying
yours. So, the two pickups are important
because you don't want to pick leave
that and then double down by the next
day. It'll it'll be crazy for you,
unmanageable. And so it seems like in
order like you pretty much when you were
purchasing these businesses, you were
keeping the team if possible because
they are the ones helping educate you on
how to be successful in that market.
Yeah, I would get new people to manage
store. That's easy. I mean, tagging and
bagging, you could get anybody. But the
hardcore pressers and the people that
run the factory, they're unreplaceable.
I'm not going to joke to you. They
they they're the squad. They're the
Yankees when it comes to this stuff.
They get it. They get the cost of
operation. They understand breaking the
baskets down. They understand what needs
to go first. There's a lot of logistics
when you're doing 12, 13 cleaners at one
time and then another 10 that don't
belong to you cuz you have 22 cleaners
happening in real time and we then that
then so here goes the thing, right? Your
12 cleaners, you own them, right? So you
can set when the deliveries come, but
that other 10 you have I have to
negotiate with him and say, "Can you
pick up at 6:00 this evening? Can you
can you pick up at 4:00? Can you pick up
by 2:00? You don't have a lot. Can you
pick up by two so I could get I could
get the bar. The bar is where you hang
all the clothes. So then there's
negotiating with the store owners
because you can't deliver and pick up
for them. There's no way. That's not
sustainable. You have to run your 12
cleaners, your own vans, they have to
drop off and pick up. So logistically,
if you're trying to say that you're
going to go buy their cleaners and pick
up, you're probably going to fail.
You're probably going to fail. And how
many locations did you end up scaling up
to? I was able to do like 10 pop-ups.
And so you get to 10 pop-ups, the
business is running, and at the peak and
the height of your career within the dry
cleaning business, you decide to sell
and move on to a different venture.
Yeah. Why?
I just had a vision. I saw technology
moving at a real fast pace, but I I saw
FaceTime, right? And FaceTime became so
fascinating to me. When you're on
FaceTime, it creates such a connection
between you and people.
It feels like you're in the room, right?
when you're on FaceTime with somebody
that you love or or a friend or
something, right? Super cool. And I was
like, what if that was monetizable?
What if you could do a call and get paid
for it? What if you could, you know,
leave a review and email? And then I
spoke to Jeff and Kevin and about the
idea and I said, "Look, I wanted to sell
everything. I believe that you guys can
build something and we all become equal
partners." And then what really got me
there as we was building the product and
these ideas, Jeff, my CTO's, he's a rock
star. like this guy built 80% of this
code himself right here. So my app is
not built in another country. It's built
right here in Brooklyn.
Crazy lags. Um the breakdancer from the
70s7
me and him are really close friends and
um he introduced me to this woman named
Jose Thompson. She was at Meta for 13
years. She was on a cross functioning
team for acquisition to buy companies
like mines or become partners like
mines. But when the app was ready, I
showed it to him. We got on a call and
she told me, "I would leave Meta to come
your COO cuz I believe that Facebook
would buy this app once it's up and
running completely."
That sealed the deal for me. Then she
got me on a call with Oric Harrington,
one of the biggest tech company law firm
in the world, and she said, "Look, I
could get you on a call because I know
the CEO and founder Mitchell Zukley, but
I can't guarantee they're going to
represent. They're too small.
So she said, "You're going to have to
sell this thing when you get on the
phone." I got on the phone with Mitch
and I told him what my vision is and
what I think Modi could be, right? And
he says, "You know, don't take this the
wrong way." He go, "But this is like a
professional Only Fans."
I said, "I'm not offended to that.
That's a billion dollar company. I'm not
offended. That's how you see it." He
says, "We can actually use this in this
law firm." He said, "Yeah, we're going
to represent you."
So those two conversations told me that
I was in the right path.
The only thing I wasn't prepared is to
understand that Latinos, 2% of us get
funded or less.
That to me is striking. And it's not.
Think about it. Let's check all the
boxes here. I put my own money to build
it. I raised a million dollars. The app
is on all platforms. I got a COO that's
a rockar. I got a law firm that's a
rocket. Why am I not fun?
Cuz I'm Latino.
make that make sense to me. Why? Why do
you think that is? Um, they just don't
fund Latino tech companies. It's less
than 2%. Explain how much you put a
million dollars of your own money. I
sold everything. I even sold the car.
[Music]

So, you raised a million, you put a
million in and it still is, but that's
to get the platform fully built out, get
it functioning. There's no breakdowns.
There's none of that. And, you know, and
sustaining it. But the reality is and
also getting the people on the app. Just
imagine this. You guys have a great
company, right? You probably have one of
the most successful podcasters I've ever
seen. You're you're like rock stars to
this. Imagine me calling you guys and
say, "Hey, James, I would like your time
your team to also have an account on
Modi cuz I believe you guys are rock
stars, right?" It's not easy to tell a
merchant to move his consulting from
Zoom and say, "Hey, come to Modi because
it's better and you get paid directly."
We've had over 14,000 downloads and I've
done them one by one.
That is not a game. I've DM' people on
Instagram. I've reached out to people. I
got on a call with them and say, "Hey,
this what makes Modi the best.
My team, my family, we're all in
because I believe this skin in the game.
There's no reason for you to back down.
And we've put everything. My team
believes in me. They've been around.
They've never said, "We want to quit.
This is just too hard." Every day they
tell me, "That's not. Go get it. Go do
what you do. Go talk to people." And
every day I get up with the same
attitude that God is blessing me and
that I'm alive and that all I have to do
is go out and get one more person on the
app.
That's my mindset. I reach out to 100
people a day and my goal is to get 10%
of that. 10 people on the app. What's
been what's been the most challenging
part of running a tech startup? trying
to get off basically. So think about in
the mainstream in the mainstream I just
want you to think how weird this is. I
went from construction to dry cleaning,
right? Which is I was in suits to
cleaning suits.
Then I decide to get in a space that I
don't even know how to work my iPhone
that great and I decide to get in the
tech space. So imagine you opening a
garage and you're not a mechanic.
So being in the tech space and never
being in it before, didn't go to school
for that. I mean you guys are young. And
you were born with a phone in your hand.
I was born with a brick, a big brick
that it weigh like 11 lbs to use. So
imagine that and me trying to learn this
in real time with two of my friends that
are CTO. This is what they did for
Google. This is what they did for big
companies. And I'm trying to learn this
in real time at the age of 48
and now I'm 56. Like imagine that at 48
I go from dry cleaning to learning tech.
And I thought the most I had to learn in
my life is how to take pictures with my
iPhone.
Though the challenge is the conversion,
I upped the game and it's a lot harder.
I didn't know the ads was stacked
against me for being Latino. I did not
know that. And I looked it up one day
and said 2% of Latino companies get
funded through VC and angel investors.
That is literally like me telling you
that you're going to surgery and your
chances of survival 2%. Would you get
the surgery?
See
That's the situation I'm in. I'm going
to surgery and my chances of living are
2%.
And the only thing I got is my family
and my investors that tell me, "We're
going to be outside this room while
you're going through your surgery. Don't
worry about it." That's what it feels
like to me that I'm having open heart
surgery and I don't want to let them
down.
So, one of the most common things that
I've noticed in successful people is
their ability to persist beyond the no.
Right? A lot of entrepreneurs, they
they'll get told no a couple times and
then they get discouraged. Oh, this
isn't for me. You've gone and try and
get investors. You've been told no how
many times? A couple hundred times
already. Yeah. But yeah, you know that
that yes is out there. You mentioned
that the advice you got that you're
$1,000. What if you're $1,000 away from
that one yes? What's your mindset when
you get rejection? Is it is it how do
you stay grounded and focused on the end
goal? So, it's like we go bit for a job
when I was in construction, right? and
there's 15 people bidding for this job
and I don't hear back. That means
somebody under bidded the job and got
it. But I know that she rock cost $10 a
sheet. I know I know they need 40
boards. I know that the guy is charging
me about $15 a board while he lays it
up. I know the cost. I can't do it for
under that cuz I'm going to fail. I know
the numbers. I'm not stupid. So, I'd
rather lose the job. So, me getting a
no, all I evaluate, what did I say that
turned this investor off? What could I
have done better? And every investor is
different. So this is where it gets
tricky, right? I go to you as an
investor, right? And I have this big pit
pitch. It's ready. I'm gonna tell you
what how great Modi is. And I walk in
the room and you're like, look, I get I
understand my video is just give me the
numbers.
Now I'm off balance. I already came in
like, what the [ __ ] just happened? He
just wants the numbers. The next
investor wants the story. The next
investor is how do I get my return? So
every time I go in the room,
there's no fighting chance. You're going
in with a new component and you don't
know how many KOs he got. This is like
not seeing the scorecard of your past
when I go in that room. And I'm not
saying it just for me. For anybody that
goes to get an investor, when you walk
in the room, you better get ready to get
punched because you're going to get
punched a lot. So to me, what are some
of those conversations like?
See, seems like you got to know the you
got to be able to read people very well
fast. You have less than three and a
half seconds. Yeah. Yeah. When you walk
in that room, even what he's wearing
tells you what you're going to know. So,
have you learned a lot about psychology
after going to a lot of investors? Yeah.
Give us some game right here. What have
you learned about people? So, there's
the relax investor, right? He'll come
with a zipper shirt, three buttons, and
um he'll have a book out, and he'll
barely look at you cuz he don't want you
to see if you got his attention.
Then you have to pull his eyes up and
that becomes a challenge because he's
not letting you trying to read him. So
you're giving him the numbers, we charge
15%. Da da da. This is how we make
money. If we got 100,000 users, we're
looking at about $300 million return,
you know, and then you get an investor.
And I think I think what really turns an
investor off if you tell them if we get
1% of dermatologists and 1% of dentists
and 1% of influencers, they're not
trying to hear that [ __ ] You need to be
straight forward and say look the market
share is there whether is Upwork whether
it's Wisen the tutoring app we fit in
all those because Modi wasn't designed
for one thing and that's the good thing
about my app I didn't design it to be a
Wisen I didn't design it to be a Fiverr
or Upwork I designed it for anyone that
does video to pay can use the app and
there's no actual professional in there
that has to this is what's going to run
the app no so the hard ones are the
millionaires and billionaires is they're
hard because their thing is one they
don't sign NDAs and they will not
because they see a lot of products
completely understandable.
Two their favorite question will stop me
from building this but that one I love
because that's when I get them because I
said well Modi cost a minute per minute
per user which means an hour cost me 60
and if the average user only charges
$100 and uses the app only four hours a
week that's $200 a year. My average user
3,000 a year. 100,000 users, $300
million, $297 million is profit.
So that investor I like because he's
very straightforward. He'll tell you
straight up, I have the money to build
this. What stops me from building this
gets you out the room fast, but it gives
you clarity of what his intentions are.
It it's so fascinating hear you talk
about the dry cleaning business and then
this business because I can see the
parallels and similarities of your
thinking between like you looking at
like this is how much it costs to press
a shirt at 60 cents. This is how much
like you know a second second per minute
whatever the the time is seeing that you
talking about that it's super
fascinating to see how it transitioned
into the tech world. One of my favorite
questions that when you watch a show
like Shark Tank that I'm sure that
you've had to encounter in your
conversations with investors is what
would you use the money for uh with the
funding? So, I'm actually really curious
to hear like what would you So, how
would you deploy that capital? So,
that's that's you see that's a question
I wish I got all the time but I don't.
Right. So, we're presently have a $20
million valuation because of the how I
built the platform and the percentages
that are there. Right? So, at the
present moment I want to raise $2
million.
25% of that budget is going to market
it. not to market the app but to market
my merchants.
See, I made a promise to the merchants
that if they download the app, my next
round is to promote them. The other 1.5
is to continue. I want to do um notary
on the app. I want to consolidate uh
Google maps and calendar to the app
because nobody wants another damn
calendar.
Um I want to do some AI in there to take
your notes, right? And I want to build
the app a live streaming where people
have to buy a ticket. So if you guys
went live, let's say somebody don't want
to be a member, a school of Hanox, they
want to test the waters, they can buy a
ticket that day for $10. And if they
like what you guys have, then they
become a member later. But there's no
obligation right now. I have a live
streaming. If you don't want to be a
member, you could come in at 10 bucks
today and listen to these billionaires
that we bring. So it's to build other
stuff. live streaming one to many you
know and you know we want to put a
crypto wallet because in the Philippines
alone there's 12 million people that use
crypto and where do you get most of your
virtual assistants from the Philippines
and they get they get about only 40% of
their pay because they have to use third
party companies
why if they use Modi they don't have to
use a third party company they could get
paid direct the average person in the
Philippine makes about $3,000 a year
with They'd be around 12,000.
That would change their life.
So, I level the playing field. They
would be done. Any other company that's
doing that [ __ ] is over. They might
as well shut the doors down cuz it's
just like the dry cleaner. I'm shutting
them down on price point. When I asked
you uh the best, I think sales advice
that you ever received, you mentioned a
piece of advice you got from David
Meltzer, which is be more interested
than interesting. How do you apply that
when you're going to sell yourself to an
investor? I want to know about them
first.
It is important to understand the person
you're in front. So if I if I can't find
nothing to read up on you how you
invested,
I want to get to know you first. What
are those questions like to get to know
them? It's really hard. I you know it
depends the investor. Like the guy in
the suit,
you have to read about him cuz you're
not going to know and he's going to play
a whole different game with you. His
game is always I can build it. So he
with him it's all about margins. So you
want to get him excited on the margins
and the way you make money.
That's the way you get a big investor. A
big investor with big suits and big I
can do this on my own. It's all about
the margins with them. They don't care
if this thing can walk on the moon. How
do I get return? How are we going IPO?
Or we're selling. Those are the three
things he want to know. How do I get my
money? Are we going to IPO or we selling
this thing? Three things. And if you
can't read that in the room,
you're out. Because he not might he
might not be interested in IPO at all.
He may want to like sell this thing as
soon as we get $200,000 users. Let's get
$6 billion and let's everybody keep it
pushing. And that's something he might
put on the on paper.
And you have to decide if you want that
2 million. Now
I need the money. And now I have to
decide that if we get it at 200,000
users, I promise him that we would sell.
That's a tough decision, especially when
I've put everything into this and I
believe that I could go IPO.
So yeah, it kind of sucks. So I've
learned a lot of things with Dave,
right? And like I told you said, always
listen first, right? Because if I go in
that room trying to oversell you, you
get turned off. So, it's better to
listen to the questions you have and not
walk away from those and be like, "No,
but this." You ain't trying to hear that
[ __ ] They focus to the questions that
are asking you. Don't walk around them.
And be honest. Can you build it? You
probably can. You're rich. Chances are
you could build it. Can you get it to
what I got it? Probably not because a
lot of my tech is built here in the
United States. So, you're never going to
get your hands on it. So, listen to the
questions that you're being asked and
don't dance around them. They feel
uncomfortable and the interview it's
over. It's just over. You can see it in
the room. You can see their body
language is stiff. It's a wrap.
So, I'm always aware that if I'm talking
to a multi-millionaire,
make it very clear that they can build
it. I get it. You got the money to build
it. But do you want to build something
that's already built? Do you want to
build something that has tremendous
margin? You think that Weisen is going
to come down from 25% of 15 now to be
competitive with me? You think Fiverr,
Upwork? No. They collect data. So they
cannot
they don't record directly to the phone.
Mine does, which means they have to go
to a cloud. That's costly. So why would
you want to build the wheel that's
already done? So that's my angle. You
want to build it when it's already
built. Make that make sense.
So in in our initial interview with you,
you had said uh basically in one of the
questions that James had asked, don't do
goofy [ __ ] talking about like people
they're, you know, wanting to go buy a
Lamborghini and all these fancy things.
What did you mean by that?
I think when you raise money, right,
there's this sense of relief, right? I
haven't got there yet, so I don't know
what the relief is going to be like,
right? But I think you get comfortable,
right? Once you raise, you get to have a
a salary, right? Which is cool. Like
whatever my salary becomes, it becomes
something cool. Don't get comfortable
because you have to raise again. You
have to raise again. And if you're
burning money just cuz you needed a
salary. I'm just got to say the amount
of people that we meet or like I won't
say like the amount of people but you
meet a lot of like these young guys that
they raise all this money. There's
there's no revenue or anything and they
are just they're buying the most
expensive penthouse in the city. It's
bizarre. It's crazy. I'm like I'm like
you guys are just raising money to just
in inflate your own lifestyle. There's
no revenue or anything. I'm going to go
raise this next round so I can get that
new, you know, SVJ. And this and this is
what's crazy, right? And so think about
that. I don't get the luxury to do that.
And knowing that my chances are only 2%
of raising capital as a Latino, I
definitely can't give myself a salary
until we're profitable. So my back's on
the wall like three different times for
three different and I have a fully built
app on all platforms. So imagine the
struggle that I got to go through. So
no, I don't touch my investor's money. I
don't get paid.
I just don't do it because I know that
I'm going to be judged heavier.
You know, if I if we've raised $2
million, my salary would probably be
$5,000 a month. That's it. I don't get
to have a $25,000 a month salary. It's
only $2 million.
That's not possible. It's not
sustainable to pay me 20 grand a month.
That's a quart of a million dollars in
12 months.
That could go in marketing. Why would I
do that?
So, no, I don't I don't I drive a Kia. I
love my Kia. Works just fine. There's no
problems with it. So, I don't do that. I
believe that the investor's money is
important and when you get it, you need
to understand that is a gift. Somebody's
trusting you. You can't you can't you
can't betray somebody's trust, man. I
think that's just like a general flaw
within a lot of entrepreneurs in general
is they make some money whether that's
through investors or just through their
own business efforts and they're like,
"Oh, you know, I'm going to go inflate
my life. I'm going to go buy, you know,
that new apartment, that new car, and
pretty much just like elevate my
lifestyle instead of when you could
reinvest that money and continue to grow
the company and make more money over
time. And one of the things I'm curious
about for you is, you know, your
background is in real estate
development, then the dry cleaning
business, and now you're in tech. You
probably have some investors being like,
"What the heck do you know about tech?"
you know so what skills have transferred
over from those industries into the tech
world so from the dry cleaners the
numbers understanding the margins from
the dry cleaners I got the numbers and
for construction the same thing right
cost of building out something where it
becomes profitable and when it doesn't
become profitable and knowing how to
walk away from a job because it's not
profitable right so knowing that the
cleaners had like a 30% markup 50%
markup 80% markup I'm like I look at I
look at and they're charging 25% and I'm
saying why are they charging so When I
got Modi to run for 60 cents an hour per
user,
why are they charging 25%.
And on top of that, they're collecting
your data, so they're getting other
money. And they don't pay you out the
same day. They pay you B weekly. So that
means they're getting the interest on
that money. So to me, it's all about the
numbers, right? It's if it doesn't make
money, it doesn't matter how good the
app is, right? I make a tremendous
amount of money at 15%.
What's the problem?
So, it's all about the numbers. It look,
it's not just having a great app. That's
just not it. Investors need to make
money. And my investors, fortunately,
have been my friends. You know, my
friends have been my investors. I
haven't gotten an angel investor or
venture capital. I raise money with 29
of my friends.
I said, I'll put 50K, I'll put 100K. I'm
with it. I believe in you.
So, I don't know the experience of an
angel investor or a VC venture capital
because they are quicker to say no. And
it's not because the app is not amazing
and the margins are not there. It's
because Latino CEOs and founders have a
2% chance of raising money. That is it.
I don't come from Silicon Valley. So, I
don't have a name brand.
You know,
I was a construction worker. I was a
project manager. I was a dry cleaning
guy. So to them, maybe that's the
challenge. Maybe that's what bothers
them. Like how is he going to get to the
next level? Well, I don't know. I got my
CEO from Facebook.
My law firm represents Meta. So it seems
like relationships have been very
important for you. It's the most
important thing. Especially in tech, it
is scary. You have to know the right
people. You know how hard it is to
convince an actor, you know, like a like
a even David a David Meltza. That guy
lost 100 million and made it back. He
has an incredible brand and he says,
"I'll be your partner. I believe in
you."
It's not easy to get partners like that.
It's almost impossible. How'd you guys
meet? That's funny. Um, there was a
Forbes event and this was years ago.
This about 6 years ago. And David was
there. He was he was one of the like
hosts that was invited. This is probably
recently after you started the uh the
app. It was like an MVP. It was really
raw. And um it was Eric Thomas. They had
all the big hitters and one of my home
girls had a ticket and I was like,
"Listen, I'm going to need that ticket.
You're going to waste your time. I have
to meet this man that I've been
following for a while." And he and
David, I watched him for years on social
media. Social media wasn't even nowhere
close to 600 700,000 followers. When I
first saw David, he must have had only
like 150,000 followers. But I was so
intrigued how kind he was with people on
social media like your brand, right?
that I was like, I need to meet him. So,
I went over there in a hoodie, jeans. I
was the only one dressed hood in there
because my goals was just to speak to
David. He was in a group of guys. I say,
"Hey, David, can I speak to you a
minute? My name is Hugo. I have an app
and I would like to speak to you about
it. I know tonight's not a good night.
Is it possible that I can have a meeting
with you?" He said, "Yeah, meet me
tomorrow morning, 7:00 a.m. I'm working
out of this building. I'm here in New
York for two days. Talk about it." I
went to his office. I was there 6:30. I
sat down. I said, "Hey, I don't have
experience in this, but I need somebody
like you, you know, to move the app when
I once I get it going." And I told him
my idea and his lawyer was in the room
at the time. He said, "I would love for
to be your partner." And that was it. He
just told me yes and one conversation.
Sometimes that 2% is 100%. Depends who
you look at and who you're talking to.
And that's the challenge, right? David
believed in me in day one.
My friends believe in me and every day
they call me and I have some Christian
sisters that call me and pray for me
every day. I have investors that call
for me every day and say, "You good
mentally?" I'm like, "Yeah, I'm good."
They said, "It's tough." I was like,
"Yeah, it's a lot tougher than I
thought. I might have misjudged this a
little bit." But none of my investors
are like, "What the fuck?" They're like,
"You're going to get it. You're closer."
So, I think my investors being
supportive helps me mentally a lot cuz I
would freak out if my investors were
unhappy,
you know, and not to say one of them
won't be unhappy or two won't get
unhappy, but they know that I'm trying
every day. And I think that's the goal.
They know I'm not out there buying
jewelry or that I took the money to do
this. They know I'm not. I'm just not
that type of guy, you know? So, I think
my credibility is strong in my community
and my investors believe in me. And more
than that, my team believes in me
because at any time they could have went
back to Google and said, "Look, bro, I
got a quarter of a million dollars at
Google. I can't do this.
They haven't."
I I I wanted to go deeper on that
question I asked about the
relationships. I feel like everybody,
you know, talks about relationships are
important. What are some things that
you've done to nurture those
relationships and really strengthen
them? Because it's one thing to go to a
networking event, right? meet somebody,
get somebody in your contact book that's
successful, but how any advice that you
could give to people that are trying to
actually grow that rolodex that they
have to where it's like, hey, if they
have, you know, an ask and a need that
they can really go to that person.
Obviously, giving value up front to that
person if you can and not just being
needy, but advice on how to nurture
relationships the right way. Be honest
in your relationships. Honesty is key.
Be there for the person that needs to
call. If you think about it, 1.4 million
men commits try to commit suicide at
600,000 do commit suicide.
Are you willing to pick up the phone at
3 in the morning, get out of bed while
your wife is sleeping, and go to the
living room and talk to your friend when
he's crying cuz he just can't take it no
more. He hates his job, his wife hates
him, or he thinks his wife hates him,
and he's just fed up. Can you do that?
Because I've done that at least four
times a month
on my whole life. I'm willing to pick up
the phone. And sometimes you don't. We
can't solve problems. But if we could
just listen to my somebody's problems,
that [ __ ] helps, man. It really helps.
And men struggle a lot. You know, I I'll
give you a prime example, right? If this
room was four women, right? And I was
telling you, "Oh, my man cheated on me
and I start crying." These women would
sympathize and start crying together.
But with a man, if I tell you, yo, my
wife cheated on me. Don't worry, my wife
got a good friend. I'm playing Xbox.
Call me later. We don't have no sympathy
for each other. And that worries me, but
I don't do that. I pick up the phone.
And if you need to cry, I'm good with
that. And sometimes I cry cuz I feel so
bad that it hurts me. And they're like,
"Why you cry?" And I said, "Because I
feel [ __ ] up that you're crying on the
phone and it's hurting me."
I think understanding that men go
through a lot and being able to be there
for a man and being a real friend, not
like being dismissive and be like,
"You'll be good. Don't worry about it."
Have you ever noticed that when you talk
to a man and you ask him how he doing?
His answer is I'm good.
Is he really good? Do you really believe
that? Because it's every man's answer.
I'm good. He's not good. He's not good.
Or not. So the idea is to understand
that at 56 I understand when you tell me
you're good. I know you're not good. I'm
like you're full of [ __ ] Let's talk.
What's bothering you?
I make the time. I only work on Modi. So
yeah, I got an hour a day to talk. If I
got an hour on Instagram, I got an hour
for you. If I got an hour Facebook, I
got an hour for you. If I got two hours
to watch a movie that I really didn't
like, then I definitely got two hours
for you. But I definitely got time for
you. We live in a world where people say
I'm busy. busy doing [ __ ] what?
Strolling on Instagram.
We can't be like that, man. We just
can't be like that.
The the the fact that men always say
they're good scares me. Well, cuz I know
they're not good cuz I'm not good
sometimes. And my wife always puts my
chin up and said, "What's wrong?" I
said, "Damn, this [ __ ] is hard." She
goes, "It's supposed to be. You want to
be a billionaire? You thought it was
going to be easy?" And I just had to
start laughing because I know she gets
it. She gets it. Don't complain about
the food on your plate when you were
praying to God that you were hungry.
That's Oh my god. Yeah, that's about
you. You nailed it. This the thing,
right? I'm okay with eating a fried egg
with white rice.
It's better than not eating nothing.
I'm okay with that. I come from nothing.
So, this doesn't break me. I got grit.
You can't break somebody that's been
broken a thousand times. You just can't
break me. And I am fortunate enough that
people pick up the phone for me and
always ask me, "Are you good?" I'm like,
"I'm figuring it out."
For me, it's the truth. I'm figuring it
out. But I never think about suicide. My
friends don't allow that from me.
They're on my back every day calling me
like, "What are you doing?" I said,
"Same [ __ ] Modi."
So, so
I'm fortunate enough that I have enough
I have enough tolerance and time that I
won't let you fall. And if I have to
jump in my Kia and go to Brooklyn, I'm
good with that. Go grab some pizza at
Joel and then we'll talk for a little
while. I'm okay with being there for my
friends. And if you want to be a true
friend, don't be there when times are
good. That's easy. That's simple.
Be there when he's in that space alone
and you're wondering why he's alone in
the house. Why is he doing that?
That's when you have to get worried. Why
is he isolating? Why is he talking less?
Be there. Don't wait. Oh, he should have
talked to me. Or maybe you should have
[ __ ] reached out. You saw the signs,
but you're too [ __ ] busy on
Instagram.
Don't do that. Be a real friend. Check
on your friends. Even if it's 2 minutes.
What the [ __ ] are you doing? What's up?
I'm annoying with my friends. that man,
you call every dad. So, yeah, I got
time. I'm working on Modi. We like to
end these uh off with two last questions
for you if that's cool. Absolutely.
What is your best guiding principle to
the younger generation? If you die
tomorrow and you could leave one guiding
principle with the younger generation,
what would that be? Die a good person,
not a busy person.
Nobody wants to go to a funeral say he
was rich and he was cool. Die a good
person. It's a good way to die. You want
people to say he was a good man or he
she was a good woman. So if I have to
die, it's not about the money for me.
I'm trying to build legacy for my
family. But I want to die a good person.
I want you able to say, "Man, he was a
good man. I can live with that. I don't
need a fancy tombstone. Just I died a
good person. Did I do enough to leave
you say he was a good man? Did I Did I
do enough as a friend?" I'm good with
that to be honest with you. a fancy
tombstone. That's not going to cover it.
I'm dead already. Doesn't matter. I
can't see it, you know. And uh this
honestly probably ties into what you
just said, but if it was all said and
done tomorrow, how do you want to be
remembered? That I died a good man.
That I changed my whole life and that I
tried really hard to be there for
people. Even when things were tough on
me, I still made the time for people.
Even when I was in my own space, in my
own mind, I still figured out that I
have to be there for you because you're
my friend and you might need me a little
more than I need myself. Everybody,
thank you for tuning in to this episode
of Hard Knocks podcast with the
legendary Hugo Sanchez. For everybody
that's watching right now, be sure to
like and subscribe for amazing content
we've got coming every week with the
most successful business owners and the
most fascinating people in the entire
world. And do yourselves a favor. Go
down to the link in the description of
this video. I need you to do two things.
Number one, we need you to download Modi
because Hugo Sanchez right here is
changing the business landscape for all
the entrepreneurs out there or people
wanting to self-improve. You're changing
the game for people. And I will. Yeah,
I'm not stopping. This is like, you
know, I'm very thankful to you guys.
Like a lot of people don't know what you
guys do. They think this just a video.
They don't see the aftermath that you
guys create for us. You guys really take
our brand to the moon and back. Like you
guys don't have a regular brand. Your
[ __ ] is real. It's not bots here. I
still get calls cuz you guys did s just
an amazing job representing me on social
media. And I would definitely want to
thank you from the bottom of my heart. I
really do because you guys made it easy
for me to win. We appreciate you, man.
We appreciate you. Everybody download
Modi today. And also we got another link
in there. It's the link to the number
one community for business owners in the
world where we give you guys direct
access to the seven, eight, nine, and
even 10 figure entrepreneurs we
interview where you guys can ask your
questions directly to entrepreneurs just
like Hugo and the thousands of other
millionaires and billionaires that we
interview every single week. So, we
can't wait to see you on the inside of
the community. With that being said,
we'll see you in the next