It's 2026. You're 20 again and you've
got no money. With all that you knownow, what would you do?
>> This is Brian Scootermore. At 19, hedropped out of college and started a
business with a single pickup truck.Fast forward to today and that same
business is valued at over $700 million.In this episode, Brian's going to break
down what he would do to get rich if hehad to start again at 20 with absolutely
nothing, including the one move he saysmost young entrepreneurs miss. Let's go.
>> So, I would start with mindset. Ifyou're the smartest person in the room,
you're in the wrong room. Get into theright room. Make sure that you are the
person that knows the least where youcan start to be a sponge and learn from
others. Join an entrepreneurorganization. Go out and meet
entrepreneurs and talk to them. And sowhat you said earlier that it gave me
chills. It was absolutely so powerful.You started your garden gardening
business and you found your passion.Your passion wasn't gardening. My
passion wasn't junk removal. But bystarting something, you get in that
mindset of, oh wow, now I know what Ilove to do. And I think that's where
most entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurswho want to start get tripped up. They
don't have the confidence, but I don'tthink they truly understand and realize
that if you just start a business,assume it's going to fail. You're going
to learn something that will take you toyour f to your passion. So, I would
start with mindset. And then the firstthing I would do is I would develop a
vision and try and connect with which ishard at 20, but what do you really want
in life? Starting with your why. You andI talked off camera and we sent a video
to our mutual friend Simon Synynic whosays starts with why. Why are you
building what you're building? I thinkso many people in their 20s say I want
to build something cuz I want to getrich. Studies have shown that that is
not the most important thing at the endof a life.
>> It won't keep you going cuz you'reselling you know the most valuable thing
you got which is time>> for money.
>> You want to have freedom. You want to beable to enjoy life and have fun. But
what I've realized especially fromothers friends of mine who've sold their
businesses you talk to people who selltheir businesses too s too soon have
some regret because they go oh my goshit was so fun. A lot of people moan
don't real much fun it is but you knowyou got to enjoy the journey basically
right so>> enjoy the journey it isn't the pot of
gold at the end at all that can be animportant milestone for people but start
with your why and go what do you reallywant to do my favorite quote in the
world is Walt Disney it's kind of fun todo the impossible what motivates me
what's my why is impossible thinking ifyou open your mind up to big
possibilities you never know they mightactually happen so I start with a dream
in my mind I would do this again at 20what's my biggest dream what do I want
to see happen in this world and nomatter how far-fetched is it, I write it
down as an idea on paper.>> What else would you do as a 20-year-old
now, you know, wanting to start abusiness with no money?
>> I would figure out, first of all, how tofind some money. Now, some of the most
powerful, largest businesses on theplanet, take Apple as an example, right?
Everyone loves Apple. They started with$1,000 out of a garage. You know, 1800
got junk starts with under a,000. Find$1,000. It's a lot of money to a lot of
people, but figure out you have an aunt,an uncle,
>> clean cars at the weekend, you'd makehalf of that. Exactly. Like I I think
people Yeah, I agree with you. Learnlearn to do the the stuff you don't want
to do so you can make the money you needto do the thing you want to do
>> and go start something. So as a kid, 12years old, I go start a car wash in my
neighborhood.>> Okay. I didn't know that, but that makes
sense.>> I'm on one corner. My neighbor who
another kid of similar age thought, whata great idea. He started a car wash on
his corner. We were in this busyintersection competing. We had a price
war. We went from two bucks down to 175.You know,
>> merge cent just merge.>> I know, but we didn't think about that.
We weren't smart enough.>> But it was amazing. We were washing all
these cars, making a ton of money,having a ton of fun. But again, starting
something with no money helped to teachme that like my passion is people,
finding people, having fun, buildingmeaning, making money. I discovered that
when I was 12. So my my advice is findsomething. and someone goes, "How can I
find an idea?" You know what you can do?You can put into chat GPT, talk to it
for 5 minutes on on a voice dictationand say, "My name is so and so. Here are
the things I've always loved to do inlife. I love to play rugby. I've loved
trading baseball cards." It doesn'tmatter what it is. Give it your ideas
and say, "Please help me with five ideasof something I can look at starting
today with no money." It will give youinspiration. It will give you things
that you can get out and start today.>> How did you discover what you're good
at? Cuz sometimes people don't knowthey're bad at something. That's the
other thing.>> So, I love marketing. I love branding.
And for me, it was getting out there ata a young age and just trying things.
So, the car wash, when I got out thereand did this big sign, my sign was
bigger than the neighbor's car washsign. I brought two girls who were
friends of mine in the neighborhood tostand out with signs with me. How do we
outmarket the guy, the kid next door?When I started 1800 Got Junk, we were
the rubbish boys. Our phone number was738 junk. So, we painted it. I painted
it on the side of the truck. And I'mlike, people need to see this. So, I
parked it at a highprofile intersectionin a busy area of town. We still do that
today, except we have 3,000 trucks,>> big mobile billboards.
>> We've just been talking about makingyour first $1,000. And this is where
most people get stuck. You say you needto start when you have time, money, or
the perfect idea, and you don't. Thetruth is, it doesn't need to be perfect.
It just needs to be started. That's whyI love Build Your Store. It removes all
those excuses. You can literally build aShopify store in just under two minutes
completely for free. Just pick yourniche, follow a few simple steps, and
you've got a store ready to go. The AIdoes the heavy lifting. It finds winning
products, builds optimized pages, andsets it all up to sell. No coding, no
design skills, no upfront costs. It'sperfect for anyone who wants to start
small, test an idea, sell a product, orbuild an extra income stream. That's why
I'm telling you about it. It's not justthat they pay us to do it. I know it's
good for you and we use the money theygive us to fund people's dreams. When
the store is live, it can make sales24/7, even when you're sleeping or
working on your next idea. Click thelink below to get your free AI built
store from Build Your Store in less timethan it takes you to make a drink. You
could have your first online businessready to go.
>> The other thing I think that I think Ihave seen this play out for many people.
There was uh two young guys that came tous. They're twins, identical twins. And
they said to me their dream was to starta cleaning business. They called them
Macka twins. And instead of moaningabout cleaning, they kind of get excited
about it. And they do this line which islike, "We clean places no one else wants
to clean." And they go into parts ofdifferent parts of the world, but
London, for example, find a place thatno one's cleaned. It's really
disgusting. And they a bin in Camden,right, that's just not been cleaned in
10 years. And they clean it. And they'vehad videos go massively viral. And
that's meant they get a lot of bookingsfor their for their cleaning business.
The thing I take away from it is like Isee this in your business too.
>> Your business does not sound sexy. Youwere 18 years old when you started it.
You did it really just to make a bit ofmoney to pay for university. These
unsexy businesses.>> This is I want people to real unsexy
businesses are really quite sexy.>> You can make them sexy. Just like those
twins. Yeah.>> They've got these viral videos. They're
connecting with the world. You can makeit sexy. What's sexy about 1800 Got Junk
is the marketing, the branding, thegetting on Ellen and CNN and Wall Street
Journal, New York Times or beingenthusiastic about something that no one
else is enthusiastic about. Again, if Iwas building a business in 2026, I'd
look in those niches. There's people, afriend of mine uh in Hong Kong who just
bought a lingerette and she's turned itinto like a really cool cafe and sell
plants and you do laundry. She wastelling me that there's people actually
going to that lingerette to wash theirclothes that have a washing machine at
home. you know, like you think lawndress,
>> they want the experience. They>> say, you take a boring business and you
you give it that kind of excitement. Ithink it's important for people to think
about not being the bottleneck in theirbusiness and have you had experience in
that?>> Yeah. So, I was the bottleneck when we
hit about 100 million in revenue and Irealized and my people helped me realize
I was not the right leader to take itfurther. My own people were saying,
"Brian, you're not the CEO that we needyou to be."
>> Interesting. So I went out there andtried to find one. I found an ex-S
Starbucks executive who had 30,000people in their employee. Brought this
person in in. And in 14 months, wealmost bankrupted the company together.
And what went wrong is I didn't have theright person for me. So when a founder
goes out and finds someone to help them,there needs to be this yin andyang
alignment that is just so good thattogether two heads are better than one.
So got rid of that person and then foundEric Church who's been with me for 13 14
years. and it's been incredible. So,what I did is I did I took a sheet of
paper and on one side I drew all thethings I wrote down all the things in
business that I love to do and that I'mgood at on the other side. What are all
the things the business needs that Ican't give it that I'm not good at. In
fact, I don't like to do. I said, I needsomeone on that side. And that's where I
started sharing that list of all thethings I'm bad at that I don't like to
do with other potential COOs, a chiefoperating officer. and I found Eric and
he goes, "I'm not just saying this, buteverything on this list I love to do and
I'm great at and the stuff on your sideI actually don't ever want to even
learn." So, we found this fit and it'sbeen 13 14 years of awesomeness. We've
gone from a $100 million to $700million. I've been able to live my
exciting marketing idea thinking energybecause of the rigor and discipline and
support that I get from Eric. What againI noticed sitting with you which I'd
love the audience to have. How old areyou?
>> I'm 55.>> If you focus on the things you love to
do and you get good at them, they giveyou energy. I see a lot of people that
are tired at 55 because they've spenttheir whole life doing the things that
don't give them energy. So you getexcited about ideas, right? You get
excited about seeing the idea getimplemented in the world and the effect
that it can have. To some people thatwould be draining. So I think people
have to know what gives them energy andwhat takes them energy and people don't
spend enough time actually thinkingabout that. So when you know your why,
the business just like goes crazy. Likewe've made more money than I could ever
imagine, could ever need, could everwant. And it happened once I really
understood my why of imagine bigpossibilities. So if I can imagine big
possibilities and share them with otherentrepreneurs outside of our business or
franchise owners in it, that's whatthat's where I get excited. So if I I
think it the the the thought to sharewith your audience from me. How do you
understand what makes you enjoy thejourney?
>> Don't think about the jets and the bighouses and whatever you want if that's
important to you. Think about what doyou love about the journey of everyday
life. It's another thing I'm taking fromthis chat today and again take this home
for yourself which is take risk. I thinkI think risk isn't a negative word. I I
think it's a word that gives you achance to learn.
>> You've got it in your title. How failurecan be your key to success. I think it's
so important that people learn to enjoyfailure and almost see it as a great
story to tell. Right? You can't write abook unless you've got some failure in
you.>> Most learning comes from failure, right?
>> So, I think I think I kind of wish it onpeople, which I I don't want anyone to
fail, but I kind of want people to takethe risk to fail. A lot of people
listening will be scared to take a risk,right? because if they're in a middle
class trap, maybe they've got an okayjob, they've got an idea, they're scared
to do it, there's downside for them. Howdo you mitigate risk?
>> I'll give you a specific real lifeexample of how I tackle failure. So, for
me, risk, I say I just have to risk. Ihave to take chances to continue to live
my why and enjoy my life. Not takingstupid risks, stupid financial risks, or
anything that's going to harm people,but I'm still trying things outside my
comfort zone and putting myself outthere. So 20 years ago, I got asked to
audition for the first season ofDragon's Den. Starts in the UK. BBC does
incredible things with it. Canada thenbrings it and I got asked to audition. I
was like, "Wow, this is really cool."Holy, I'm flattered. I failed miserably.
They didn't like me. They said, "No,this isn't going to work out." And I
asked, "What can I learn from thissituation?" The show started to take
off, started to grow. 10 years later,they said, "We're looking for a new
dragon. We think you could be it." AndI'm like, "Okay." They come into my
office, they film me, invest all thistime, I invest time, I'm like, "Okay, I
got it this time." Nope. Sorry, you'renot the right fit. And I'm discouraged
and I'm like, "What is this all about?"But every time I fail, I take out a
sheet of paper>> and I say, "What can I learn from this
failure? Why has it been two times nowthat I haven't gotten the dragon spot?"
In reflection, I looked back. If I gotit that first time, it would have killed
my business cuz I didn't have time tospend on two things. The second time I
was going through absolute crisis in mybusiness and couldn't have taken a
moment to focus on that. So opportunitycame up again years later. 3 years ago I
heard there was going to be anotheraudition for a new dragon. And I'm like
I've done it twice. I'm going to dothree times. Like I'll keep doing it cuz
I want to use that as a platform toshare my passion for choose the most
amazing career set you could ever findbeing an entrepreneur. I get to the
studio. There's 19 other potentialdragons. And there were some really
famous Canadians in that room. And I'mlike, "Oh my gosh, I can't do this." And
I thought, "Okay, what's my why? Why amI here? Do I see this and feel it?" And
I just channeled my energy into if thisis important to me and I really want it,
go in and be my awesome self. And ifthey like me, great. If they don't, they
don't. And I got it>> nice.
>> And it has been so much fun andimpactful. But we fail. And that's okay.
It's more than okay. Most people wouldnot have tried an audition a second
time. M you've got to fail because youdon't know when you're going to catch
the wave, do you? You know what I mean?Like you don't know when that wave is
going to actually hit. So, you've got tokeep surfing.
>> Failure is preparation.>> Brian, thanks for giving us time today
to share, guys. I really recommend yougo buy this book. We'll put the link
down below. If you're interested inentrepreneurship, you you should read
it. You should read it. It will helpyou. There's a step-by-step insight here
and how to make it all happen. It'sinspirational and I think a lot of
people can learn from it. So, thank youfor taking the time.
>> Thank you. I hope your audience ischallenged to get out there and write
down where are you going to fail and gofail today. Let us know down below what
you going to start, right? Let us knowwhere you're going to start.