No other setup has made more money on
the desk than this strategy. And the RSIindicator is by far the most widely used
indicator for nailing this setup. Thedesk just made a huge trade. A massive
run followed by a dramatic crackovernight. We traded ourselves. The
story behind this trade is wild and theRSI was crucial. Not all trades within a
strategy are created equal. We knowthis. But why do some traders fail to
see the difference? We use RSI to spotthe signal. And a big part of this is
how we customize the settings. We'll getinto all of this, but Tim, when did you
start thinking about this big silvershort?
>> I would say it was the week ofChristmas. So Monday was the 22nd. I
think SLV was getting above 60 at thatpoint. And that's when we started
thinking that this could be a big trade.>> Right. And where were you at this point?
>> It's funny. Holiday week. I was inWorcester, Massachusetts Friday uh for
when we actually traded it. I was inRhode Island to start the week uh with
back home with my parentsand Friday I was Friday at the close I
was driving the back roads of Vermont upto Ski at Okimo.
>> So>> crazy. So what about you?
>> Did you did you have FOMO at all? Likewere just being in the car being on the
slopes during this whole thing?>> When I had service, I had some FOMO.
Yeah. Yeah.>> But that was where I know that we had
our team looking at this and we wereexecuting for this trade as well. So
that helps with the FOMO.>> It does. And that I mean that just kind
of speaks to the power of being on ateam, right? Is you can you can kind of
pick up the slack if somebody's offdoing something. And you were still
communicating with us about this trait.So you still had input. You just weren't
pressing the buttons. Um I>> I was texting on Discord.
>> Yeah. Right. I was I was at my in-lawshouse because this happened over
Christmas. This is why we were all gone.And I was pressing buttons on my laptop
in my in-laws living room when it'sabsurd.
>> I think I think Maggie's dad was likewatching the the Eagles game or
something like that and I'm I'm justzoned in on the silver chart. So, all
right. So, what was this trade? Uh thiswas this was a big silver short. So,
we're we're expressing it with SLV,right? So, what what was this trade?
So SLV broke out the week ofThanksgiving in a major fashion. Broke
out of a huge weekly base. SLV broke outThanksgiving week and then this trade
happened Christmas week, both holidayweeks is just it's funny. It
>> It is funny because it was literallyThanksgiving. It was when it broke out.
It was either the the day after theFriday I think it was. I was I was in my
dad's kitchen on my laptop again tradingthat one.
>> Um just holiday holiday trade. So yeah,it broke out over Thanksgiving and then
topped>> over Christmas. Um so this is a this is
a big trade for us. Like I mean everyonehas different playbooks and you know
certain trades are bigger than othersbut for our entire desk this is a really
really big playbook that a lot of peopleon our desk trade well. Um how would you
define this playbook?>> But I would define it when you get a
stock that is overextended on multipletime frames. you are then looking for a
potential top and a blowoff as we callit and you're looking to capture that
backside.>> Okay. So, it's a short trade after
something is run>> um in an unusual way, right? So, we're
look it's I would classify it as anoutlier situation where something gets
extraordinarilyextended and then and then you look for
the short>> and it's falls under the mean reversion
playbook. So, we've talked about trendfollowing in past episodes. This is now
mean reversion,>> right? We did we did talk about the gold
trade and I forget which episode, butone of them and in which we covered a
trade that was within this playbook. Um,both metals, which is kind of funny
because that's the kind of year it'sbeen.
>> It's been the year of the commodities.>> Yeah. Um, so all right. So, this was a
this was a mean reversion short um insilver. It happened over um Christmas
and to me I mean this happened in a veryunusual way because it was over
Christmas. A lot happened overnight. Umit wasn't the the top was actually
overnight. It was such a big event onthe daily chart. I mean days leading up
to this thing that it was running everysingle day. I think it closed at the
highs on Friday and then ripped um intothe futures open on Monday um or Sunday
night rather and then just flushed hardinto the open and then throughout that
Monday when we opened.>> All right, let's let's slow it down a
little bit. Garrett, let's look at thechart. Kurt, you want to pull up uh
image number one?>> So, what was the actual trade? What did
we take? What did we execute on? Yeah.So,
Fridaywe saw that silver sped up and closed at
the highs. And that's the second to lastcandle on this chart. So, you can see
that big green candle. And just noticelike the trend and and and this speed up
of the trend is really important. Andthen we got that gap up and that huge
run on Friday and a close of the highs.And so, we're thinking like we're
getting really close, right? This isthis is getting to the point in the
trade where this is getting so extendedthat we want to find some way to express
a trade.>> Would you like to gain the biggest edge
a retail trader can get? All of ourdaily and weekly in-house trader
meetings are now available to you. Justhead over to smbtraingfloor.com
to find out more. And you mentioned RSI.What's interesting with this setup, this
parabolic short, the overextended short,RSI is a huge tool because a lot of the
times, and you can see it since thebreakout from Thanksgiving, we'll hear
on the desk and you'll just hear fromtraders in general where they're like,
"It's still too early." And there's alot of merit to that. like saying that
is really really significant.But what was what was different on this
Friday for you?>> Yeah. So I'll tell you a little story
about that. So I host these bionictrader meetings on Tuesdays and we go
over signals like this, right? Like theRSI, like how we on the desk use the
RSI. We talk about some of theindicators that we've developed and we
share them. um and we were going oversilver. So, this would be Tuesday. We're
talking about putting the trade onFriday. So, this was four days before um
the top before we put that trade on. AndI was outlining how we were seeing this
as a potential really great meanreversion setup. And we were talking
about what a big opportunity this couldbecome.
And as we looked at all the variables,we decided that it was early. Though we
really like this trade, we would love tosee it extend more and speed up more
before we really put on the risk. Um,and so that is something that we say a
lot, right? We might love a trade, butwe might say it's early. And so
fast forward to Friday, what changed wasthe acceleration of this move. So it was
already up a lot. It was already latestage in this move. But what we really
wanted to see was the speed up. Wewanted to see it extend. And this is
something that the RSI can measure andand we have a specific way of using it
to actually capture that acceleration,which you can't totally see in the RSI
on this chart, but we'll show that in asecond. Um, we were looking at Kelner
channels, which is ATRs above a movingaverage and just going to historical
examples of SLV, silver, gold, othermetals in other regimes where the trend
got out of hand and it sped up and wentparabolic. And we were looking at those
shorts and looking at what thoseindicators looked like at those moments
and comparing it to here. And one of theinteresting things that I find about
this trade is that it's silver. It's ametal, right? And we talked about gold.
Same thing. These commoditiescan act a little bit different than
stocks. And that's always in the back ofmy mind when I'm trading these because
do you want to sit in on all of ourdaily and weekly in-house trader
meetings? There's no bigger edge retailtraders can get. Visit
smbtradingfloor.comto learn more.
>> Stocks tend to blow off really fast,right? As soon as they get out of hand.
It might be options driven or whatever.These commodities can go on a lot
further than we think. I mean, so canstocks, but commodities really tend to
do that, especially like I mean, stufflike natural gas, what do they call it?
Like the widow maker because they justhave they just have drivers behind them
that can create these squeezes. So um soI just thought that on Friday when we
get that close after a big gap where therange expands and you can see that on
the chart you know we're thinking it'sgetting very close now it's no longer
early it might gap up but if it doesthat's even better and at that point
this is becoming an A+ setup>> in another way even to say it a lot of
people like to use the analogy of arubber band for this setup where you can
only stretch a rubber band so far beforeit snaps back. And commodities, you can
maybe stretch it a little bit more thancertain uh stock squeezes. So on
Tuesday, that was when it was reallystarting to peak our interest. And at
that point, I think we were talking withour team and we were like, this might
have a couple more days left.>> Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, for that,
I would just say with a trade like this,context is everything. Um, we, you know,
we have our ways of getting involved. Wehave our intraday setups and things like
that that might, you know, our openingrange breaks and things like that that
might tell us that this trade istriggered. But we we need a really great
context for a trade like this. And bycontext, I just mean some overall
environment filter that says yellowlight, green light, right? Where that
green light is like, okay, now we'relooking for the trade. because it's very
easy to get run over and it's very easyto be trying this on the front side too
early and just getting chopped up andchopped up and chopped up. That really
is the risk of this trade. And so it inmy opinion, you have to have ways of
keeping that in check and measuringthese things in order to define that
context. And that's really where likethese indicators come into play for
something like this.I completely agree.
>> So, you know, as Tim, you and I bothhave done a lot of quant work, right?
Andthat's something that we have a lot of
experience in. And so because of that,we've dealt with
a lot of testing of strategies and a lotof variables because when you're testing
a strategy,it really forces you to quantify market
dynamics because you start to realizethat you can't tell an algorithm, hey,
like when this gets out of hand, shortit. Or when this gets out of hand, give
me a heads up. When this when it becomesup too much, let me know. Right? like
you have to define up too much. There'sno other way around it. And so now all
of a sudden you're thinking about howcan I quantify that and you're either
inventing metrics that will describewhat you want to see or you're using
perhaps existing indicators like the RSIto define that. And so I think a lot of
the times discretionary traders sort oflose this
point because we're so busy asdiscretionary traders
getting a feel for things and havingintuition that
we start to lose the fact that we're actwe're able to use data to quantify
things like the context and it's reallyimportant in a in a trade like this like
so what about this particular setup toyou forces us to quantify
Just like you said with a model, justsaying it's up too much does not give
you the conviction. And similar to thequant work we're doing and like using
trade data as we call it, discretionaryversion of that is just checks in favor.
More checks in favor means this is abetter setup. So as a discretionary
trader, you're looking for many checksin favor to tell you that this is up up
too much, right? Yeah. So, I mean, weI've done some videos on YouTube, you
know, and I've I've because of the quantwork we've done, I've I've done a number
of of videos about indicators. And onething that I notice is that in the
comments when you talk about indicators,you get two camps of people, right? And
I know there are people in between, butthe people that tend to comment are
either>> saying, "Thank you for providing the
answer to all of my problems.Now I can make millions of dollars. This
is what I've been looking for." Or it'sindicators or the particular indicator
you're talking about has no edge. It'slagging. Like I only use charts. I only
use chart patterns. I pride myself inthat. Your indicators are trash. And for
some reason, and I don't know why, itawakens such a polarizing
stance, right? Do you?>> Sure does. It's insane.
>> And so,who is right?
I mean, out of both parties, first off,yeah, there are armies on both sides.
And I would argue they're both notright. the ones that say this indicator
is the Lord and Savior, I would arguethat just one indicator alone uh will
not help you trade every single setupand a full diverse playbook. And I would
argue on the other end that if you'rethinking an indicator is lagging,
we'll get into what even is an indicatorbecause that's a whole different story.
But if you think I'm never going to usean indicator, it's lagging. You're
missing out on a ton of information thatthe market gives you every second,
>> right? I mean, indicators are notstrategies, right? They're just tools.
They're data points. They're ways for usto describe variables of these
strategies. Andeverything's lagging. Everything's
historical data. Like even even youryour awesome um work on fundamental
analysis Tim is stuff that everybodyknows or can know right because it's out
it's history right chart chart data ishistorical like I would argue that
candlestick chartsis an indicator
>> high low open close historical data ofhigh low and close we didn't always have
that can you imagine trading back in um1929 N you're Jesse Livermore. You're
just that you're reading the ticker tapeas the as it's coming out of the machine
looking at the quotes and then someonecomes in with a computer and shows you
candlestick charts of the historicalprice data and explains this is the
high, low, open, close of all of thesetime periods. Like check out this
indicator I created. You'd be like thisis wild. I'm
>> You told me Jesse Livermore didn't useMACD.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So, you know, Ithink in a way like I like to think of
it as like a broadening the idea ofindicators, right? The fact that like
kind of any data that we look at in away is an indicator and it's not just
you know your your classic RSI and MACD.Um I mean Paul Tudtor Jones like what
did he do? How what was he doing?>> Yeah, I mean that's kind of fun. Let's
think about it. Like what was he doing70s and 80s if he saw an overextended
short like silver? Like it could havebeen in corn futures, but
>> I mean he didn't he didn't useindicators like we're talking about RSI.
>> So there there's a great YouTube movie.I think it's it's probably still on
YouTube. I forget what it's called, butyou can probably just
>> I've watched Yeah, you just type in PaulTudtor Jones movie or something like
that. And it follows him around duringthe 1987 crash. It's it's gold. And I
mean, you get all the vintage 80s vibesin there, but you get to see him on the
phone. You get to see him working withhis assistant. And this is right in the
thick of it. I think this was rightbefore the crash. And they're talking I
think the market's still running up if Iremember correctly. But he gets with his
assistant and his assistant has printedout all of these analoges to 1987. So I
think they had the big one was 1929 andthey were taking the charts and they
were superimposing them and comparingthe run in 1929 to the run in 1987 and
saying the same stuff that we've beentalking about which is I think we're
close because they're they're looking atthe slope of the chart and trying to
figure out like does this is this acheck in favor? does this qualify for
something that is going parabolic thatis going to blow off and they were they
were I think they were long at the timebut they were they were looking for the
end.So he was looking at his playbook. Maybe
it was the Friday right before thatMonday and he was like this is pretty
similar in terms of an extension,>> right?
>> I I I agree.>> Um but it's in the way that's just
indicators back then too. It was thecandlestick data.
>> Yeah. So so indicators are just math.It's just statistics, you know. They're
not traders. They're not strategy. So wejust think of them in a black and white
fashion. If we want the data, we get thedata. That's that's all it is. And so
it's really important to understand, inmy opinion, what your indicators are
measuring and and the nuances of themand and when they work and when they
don't. So can you think of instances,Tim, where indicators are dangerous?
Like using a certain indicator might becompletely the wrong thing to do?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I have a couple. I wouldsay one of them would be a strategy
that's just based on shorting RSI of 70or buying RSI when it drops to 30.
Another example I would even say uh iswith the moving averages where we only
look at moving averages certain momentswhen stocks are doing certain things and
other times they're completely useless.Like if a stock's been in a range for a
year or let's say even a month range,it's been in a month range. Looking at
the moving averages and trying to playlike any moving average cross is just
going to lead to you getting chopped upand taking a million paper cuts.
>> Okay. Yeah. So, so there are there arecertain signals that you don't like. for
instance, the RSIon those default settings, which we can
which we're going to get into, orcertain indicators have environments
where they work and where they don't.And I totally agree with you about the
the moving average thing because that'sthat's a trend. If we're not in a trend,
the moving average is going to be ummeaningless. How do you like to use
indicators? Because you don't alwayshave to just use it for an entry signal.
Like what are some of the ways that youlike to use them? Honestly, I yeah, I re
really don't use them for entry singlessignals at all. Uh indicators for me
really just play into the context and welook at not just a single indicator like
we mentioned, um but we have ones thatwe're always looking at on our charts
and I use them to just give context forthe playbook trades. So, they're not
trades alone like we mentioned, but theones I like to use RSI, uh, the moving
averages, looking at the Kelners, andall that's doing is telling me more
about the stock and where it's at, whereit's positioned compared to the market,
and it's the context.>> Okay,
>> but I would never I would never honestlytrade just off of it alone. And even our
models, like man, we we don't even tradeoff one. like we have multiple entry
criteria,>> right? And I I think another great way
to use them is for filtering>> because,
>> you know, you can like someone mightsay, "Oh, I can just see it in the
chart." And that's great. I think that'strue. Like, you know, especially if you
can do that, if you have those skills,which I think, you know, you should, um,
then that's a that's true almost 100% ofthe time. But at the same time, if you
were to say, "Well, then if you can seeit in the chart, show me the 10 stocks
in the market that that are the mostoverextended right now. How are you
going to see that in the chart?" You'vegot to create some filter for that. So,
you can use something like the RSI orsome input to get a list. Um, so I think
that's one of my favorite ways to usethem. Um, and and in this case, we're
looking at outlier situations.So, I like to use indicators to spot
outlier scenarios. Some people like totrade off indicators
with stocks doing normal stock things,and that's fine. I like to set my
indicators so that they're very extreme.And we're going to do this with the RSI
in a second because this is this is howwe use it. But I like to have my
settings in such a way that it's goingto alert me to something that is very
rare. And in that case, it's moremeaningful to me when I see it and it's
not just so much noise. Like I'm lookingat this thing all the time and there's
all these signals and then I have todecide if the signal is meaningful or
not. I'm kind of just following theprice action looking at the tape and
then I kind of have my indicators andevery once in a while it's like whoa.
Okay. like this is this is get this iscrazy. This is worth my attention.
>> Um>> it makes a lot of sense. Do you ever use
them for anything like just what'snormal price action per se or
>> um I would saythe my favorite thing to use that is
just a normal cycle is just thatvolatility cycle that we use which is um
anyone who has used or heard of the TTMsqueeze. It's basically looking at when
a stock is super compressed and thathappens all the time. stocks get
compressed, but it's a great way tounderstand the stage that the stock is
in and how much energy it has. But I'malways combining that with the price
action and the news and whether it's aleader and you know whether the the the
chart looks good, right? So it's notstanding on its own.
>> Have you heard this study of tens ofmillions of traders which shows that
only 1% of retail traders actually makeit? Don't be a statistic. Visit
smbtradingfloor.comto greatly increase your odds.
>> Real quick, I don't want to dive toomuch back into the whole indicators are
just math, but I mean the vault cyclewas something that you created. Uh, you
know, you've done a ton of work withindicators and that might be a good
example of how you really can umcustomize and create your own indicators
and what you're doing is a lot of math>> to make the signal better. I mean it's
it's fun and like we started doing itbecause of the quant stuff and then and
then you kind of find that certainthings have value so you bring it into
the the real world and maybe make analert or something like that. So with
this silver trade like what are wetrying to quantify
like if we just if if no indicatorsexisted and you had to tell me like I
need an alert or I need I need aindicator that tells me X Y and Z. Like
what are we trying to define here?We're really trying to define when it
becomes overextended. So like when itbecomes
so strong and so just so unusuallystrong that it's unsustainable. But
what's interesting like RSI is whatgauges that strength
and what we're really have to with thisoverextended short and like what makes
one of the trades an A+ trade is when itbecomes that this move is unsustainable
like it can't be at these pricesanymore.
>> I would classify that as acceleration.That's how I would look at it. Um,
we can have a stock that's up a lot, andLance does a great job talking about
this, and it's so true. We can have astock that's up a lot on a percent
basis, or up a lot over a quarter,but if it's just grinding in a linear
fashion,that means it's price accepting and
going higher and price accepting andgoing higher, and nothing's really
changing. It's just trending. So whatedge do we really have to step in and
short that?>> Yeah. If the pl uh the slope of price is
one that is just a normal trend,>> right? So when something is up a lot,
it's trending, it's trending, it isgetting extended. What we really want to
see is not only something that has highvelocity, but high acceleration. We want
to see the parabolic nature of thatprice path increase. And that's really
just euphoria, right? That's shortsgetting blown out. That's longs getting
exuberant in the the late stage of thecycle. That's um people who have been
long for maybe the whole move arestarting to think, my gosh, like I
should take profits. It's like a perfectstorm. And it gets so extended from
those moving averages that now all of asudden the riskreward like the meat on
the bone for that pullback becomesgreater and shorts will step in like on
our desk and we get that snapback whichtends to be quite violent. Um and I
would say like something on this silverlike we're just looking for a day trade
like we're not you're not trying toswing this right like do you have a
fundamental view of silver like itshould be done?
>> No. And first, that's also when you havepeople on Twitter saying, "If you're
getting long silver up here, you'reinsane." Like, everyone on Twitter was
like, "How could you be getting long uphere?" Almost like mocking them. But
yeah, it it's a very different thingwhen it comes to commodities, when it
comes to silver, the gold that we talkedabout where they do have some
fundamental driver. Maybe they overshotand that's why we're looking for this
trade. But there is some reason behindthe move. And in a lot of cases with
this setup, there isn't like it could bea company that has zero revenue, uh,
isn't changing the world, not involvedin AI. Sounds like Beyond Meat
is Beyond Meat. And what that gets intothough is you can see it in certain
stockswhen they make that crazy of a move,
that extended of a move, RSI gets above80, it gets above 90, and this is really
worth a dollar or worth zero, it becomesso unsustainable where it can't it
really can't sustain at these prices.So, you're more likely to see this short
setup, I would say, in those, but it's adifferent it's a different thing because
they're not supposed to be up there andthey may never get up there again,
right? Whereas, you know, something likegold, like we covered in another
episode, and this silver, like theythey've got major macro drivers behind
them. And, you know, there's a there's abigger force at play. And we're not
we're not trying to be analysts andthink far out and say, you know, this is
this is it for forever. We're justtrying to make a day trade based on the
technical dynamics of this trade. Andthe same technical dynamics that play
out on silver play out on something likeBeyond Meat that might be overvalued.
The difference is that um I personally Iwould be much more comfortable swinging
that short in Beyond or something that Iknow got out of hand even just
dislocated from its value. Whereas Imean with these metals like I'm not a
macro expert. I know that there are alot of fundamental drivers behind these
things. For all I know, silver gathersitself and goes higher. I mean, we
shorted gold.>> I don't know when was that, October or
something.>> Yeah.
>> And that was another kind of day tradeum for me. And what what happened? Well,
it did come off and then it consolidatedand then it made a new all-time high,
you know, I don't know, a couple monthslater. So,
>> well, in the start of the moves, likefor gold and silver, it's like central
banks buying and like and there's a ton,like you said, other drivers. Yeah,
>> but when you have a Beyond Meat goinginsane or any random lowflat going
insane, it's less of there's a ton ofpeople buying this. It's a liquidity
trap. It's a short squeeze in a majorway where it's not just fresh buying,
it's shorts then having to uh buy stockto cover their positions and you get
those squeeze dynamics. So it's it's avery different setup and at the same
time like you said you can trade themthe exact same way and the technicals
are very similar.>> So would the desk have made millions of
dollars on this trade if it weren't forRSI?
>> That's a pretty that's a prettyinteresting question. Like I so the
answer is yes. I I 100% think they wouldhave because it's not as great. RSI is
the most popular indicator for beingable to see when it's up too much, but
by no means is it the only indicator.And for the desk, there are a lot of
other ways that we could have looked atsilver and thought this is ready. So,
you can look at the number of days up.You can look at we've already mentioned
kind of the Kelner channels. You canlook at, you know, how far it is from
key moving averages,the extension gaps, but there's multiple
ways that you could see it. And I mean,speaking of seeing it, you could even
see it with your own eye. Um, which, youknow, does come from seeing a ton of
examples marking these up, but you couldeven just do the eye test and have an
idea. So, I would say the answer isyeah.
>> Yeah. And I mean, what do you think?>> Yeah. the RSI happens to be the most
popular indicator usedfor this setup and it happens to be
highly effective. Um, so I think it'sgreat, but I think to that whole
indicator argument that we had beforewhere you have your polarized views, you
know, there are many ways to skin a cat.So I agree there there are other
indicators that that do the same thingand you just have to know your
indicators and that's what we'll go overthis in a second. And Tim, I want to
show you the the custom settings that Ilike to use, but Oh, yeah. Um, you can,
you know, and I like to I always have tosee the chart with my eyes and and feel
that acceleration, understand what thetape feels like. But there is something
to be said for you're sitting thereevery day like Tuesday when I'm doing
Bionic Trader, I'm talking about what abig OP this can be and I'm having to
restrain myself from shorting it, right?Like I'm thinking this is this is
getting close. this is really this couldbe really good. What if I miss it?
Should I should we put this trade on now>> that we just did? Right. And so,
>> yeah,>> for me, it's not that like I'm just
looking at something like the RSI andit's the only way to do it, but in those
moments,you can lean on those indicators to kind
of keep you in check. Like you saidearlier, checks in favor. what we didn't
have certain checks in favor with theindicators that we normally do. And so
that just gives me that extra littleobjective perspective on the whole thing
to to kind of calm me down and say,"Okay, like let's be let's be reasonable
here. It's early, right?" And justfollow the process. So I think I think
these things can be really reallyhelpful for for that kind of exercise.
Um I like to look at these on multipletime frames. So, there's two keys, Tim,
to to why this becomes effective. And Isee this happen on the desk. These these
three things that we're going to do.We're going to we're going to change the
settings. We're going to change twosettings. And we're going to use
multiple time frames.And I see this across the desk. It's not
just the RSI signal on the daily, right?It's the RSI signal on the daily plus
some intermediate time frame like thehourly or like I use the 130 minute
chart. and then it's on a shorter timeframe like the 30 minute chart, right?
So, we want to see these signals line upacross time frames
andwe don't want to follow the default
settingsthat everyone gets on their platforms on
the RSI because they're way too normal.>> Wait, what do you mean by what are the
default settings?>> So, it's it's a 14 period. That's the
classic thing. And>> for the look back, you're saying? Yeah.
and the overbought is 70 and theoversold is 30.
That's those are the thresholds. So theRSI is an oscillator that is bound
between zero and 100 and it's measuringthe rate of change the the the amount of
up moves that are in those candles um inthat look back period and the amount of
down moves that are in that in thecandles during that look back period,
right? And it's it's calculating all ofthat and creating an oscillator where if
everything was an up move, an aggressiveup move, it would be at 100. And if
everything was an aggressive down move,it would be at zero. And if everything
was flat, it would be at 50, right? Andso we have thresholds on either side
that designate>> like this is overbought or this is
oversold. That's the classic way to lookat it.
Um,I don't like using those default
settings.>> I was about to ask when you're saying
customize, what are you doing?>> Yeah. So, I'm changing the length or the
period from 14 to 20. I want it to belonger. It's going to be harder for it
to reach 100 or reach 70 or reach 80 ifit's a little bit of a longer look back
period. Plus, I like 20 because on adaily chart that's about a month of
trading days and I use a lot of otherindicators at 20 and it just makes sense
to me, but it works. And I like tochange the thresholds to 80 and 20. And
that just requires it to be moreoverbought for me to get that signal.
And now I'm not just looking at thosehard levels, but they are the thresholds
on the chart. So I want to extend myexpectations. And you'll see this across
the desk like guys who will use RSI likeyou know Joe will will he'll type in our
chat um on team Kits and he'll saysomething like such and such RSI is like
75. I'm looking for it like I thinktomorrow it can get to 85 and I'll start
to get interested. Right. So he's in hishead he's using like higher thresholds
because because he's done the homeworkand knows how these things act.
>> He almost sometimes Yeah. If it's noteven 80, usually it's like this is 90
and Joe's then starting to really poundthe table to us.
>> Yeah.>> Uh but yeah, he had this is one of his
core setups. And similarly, he makes itmore difficult. And what that does, what
you're getting at is you get the signalless.
>> Right. Exactly. You get less signals.They're more discerning. They're more
extreme. It cuts out all the noise.Right. Those default settings are for
normalstocks. They're for stocks that are
behaving like normal children. And weare looking for we are looking for a a
devious child that's going to get kickedout of the kindergarten class. So we
need an in we need to change oursettings to describe that that deviant
child.>> I mean SLV here got detention.
>> Yeah. So um Kirk, could you bring slidenumber two up, please? Let's let's
actually show some of these charts andand kind of get into it. So, so here are
the multiple time frames, Tim. So, onthe left,
>> yeah,>> we got the daily in the middle. This is
my 130 minute chart. Someone could usean hourly chart. I just or a 65 minute
chart if you want the candles to allcontain within each trading session
because it>> I use 130 because of you though. I like
it.>> Yeah, I just there's certain reasons why
I use 130, which we're not going to getinto, but um it it essentially slips uh
splits the number of bars evenly acrossthe time frames that I use. It's neither
here nor there. And then a 30 minutechart on the right. And we have the RSI
down below. And so you can see that it'san oscillator. So that dotted line is
the 50 line. So that's the middle. Andyou can see the upper bound and the
lower bound. And those are thethresholds. And on Thinker Swim here,
when it hits that upper threshold, itlights up in pink. And so you can see on
the chart, and this is our SLV trade,that the daily chart finally lit up in
pink. And then at the same time, the 130minute chart finally lit up in pink. And
then we had for that entire day, the 30minute chart lighting up in pink. So
once we had all of those aligned, youhave a really strong contextual signal.
And in fact, and we're not showing ithere, the weekly chart was also lighting
up in pink as well. We were actuallyeven talking about it today with a
separate trade, but it's alwaysinteresting. Sometimes you'll get it
where it could be overextended on justthe hourly, but not the daily, and that
becomes a whole different setup. Butwhen you have all the time frames,
that's really screaming that this isready. Like, like we said, it could go
up more, but this is getting real close.>> Yeah.
>> And that shows it's so clear there. Andyou don't get the signal that much. Like
with that 80, you're only getting thesignal right pretty much like on that
Friday. That's I It's hard to see here,but I believe it was on that Friday for
the daily, right?>> Uh yeah. Yeah, it was on the Friday. And
then we get the gap down and and we'llshow other examples of different trades
with these settings and and with thesame charts
>> just to kind of show that this isrepeatable. Um, but I I really want to I
think it's really important to talkabout why
these multiple time frames areimportant. So, we talked about
acceleration before and how that's a bigpart of this trade. That's a huge check
in our favor. We don't want it just tobe up a lot. We want to see it start to
accelerate. And so if we use multipletime frames and get the same signal on
multiple time frames, the shorter timeframes are what are telling us about
that acceleration. So the daily chart istelling us that it's up a lot. And then
if it's also up a lot on the 130 minutechart and the 30,
that means it's accelerating. That meansthose shorter time frames are also
parabolic. So, it's not just a highertime frame that's parabolic, but the
shorter time frames are parabolic. Andwhen you combine all of those, you get
that parabolic move. And so, you know,this is the kind of stuff that we learn
when we when we test our models, right?Because we'll we'll figure these things
out and realize, oh yeah, that's one ofthe ways to to measure acceleration.
Here's a mindbending stat for you. SMBtraders have 20x to 40x higher odds of
success than independent traders. Findout why and how to greatly increase your
odds by visiting smbtradingfloor.com.>> You want to look at some examples of
just past ones cuz this I mean like wesaid this is a huge trade. The desk has
made millions on this trade. We'vetraded some huge opportunities in the
past and I kind of want to look at it.>> What do you think?
>> Yeah, let's do it.>> All right. We should probably show the
GLD because we traded this one mostrecently.
>> So, this is GLD and it looks verysimilar. Um, we we had a whole podcast
about this, but we didn't talk aboutindicators. We just talked about the
euphoria behind this move. Um, and howextraordinary it was. Um, it's it's not
hard to see that the daily chart is up alot, but the funny thing is is that if
we rewound this, it would look like it'sup a lot during a lot of that move. So,
well, and if you had the RSI at 70, youwould have been looking at you would
have thought you had your signal a lotearlier.
>> Yeah. In in fact, we can we can showwhat that looks like um in a second when
we use the default settings. Um butyeah, I mean you can just it's the same
thing and that's what I love about it'sit's very simple, right? You get um you
kind of got an early signal there whichdid have a big sell-off but that signal
didn't occur on the 30 minute um andthen it went higher and you got the
signal again and you get the signal atthe 30 like pretty much right at the top
and then you get the sell-off. So, Imean, the the power of the multiple time
frame thing is very significant for thisparticular setup
>> and when you get all of them.>> Yeah. And and we're not we're not always
doing the call buy calls short stockthing. That was very specific to SLV. Um
sometimes, you know, you're just waitingfor that next day or you're waiting for
that gap up and it gets there and thenyou get your opening range break and it
just becomes a great day trade. Likewhen we covered this, we were day
trading it pretty much the whole time.>> That U-turn setup tends to be a really
good intraday pattern as well to justwait for that, which is that opening
range break.>> Yeah.
>> Um,>> so yeah, let's look at the default
settings.>> Okay, so how crazy it is.
>> Yeah, Kirk, could you please bring upslide number three? So this is SLV
default setting. So clearly you'regetting signals everywhere.
>> A lot of pink>> and that's just what happens on a strong
stock. Like they're going to stayoverbought for a while. Um, we know
this. We've looked at a lot of these andthat's why I say those it's it's much
harder for me to look at something likethat because how can I rely on that? And
that's what I mean about I really wantto set my indicators so that they're
they're measuring extreme outliersituations.
>> Well, because if you're not and you'regetting the signal every day, then you
need other reasons to not be looking forthe short.
>> Exactly.>> It just clouds it so much more.
>> Exactly. And you know, you're not goingto get a setup like this every day,
right? And that's what I mean about likeif you're going to use the default
settings, you might be trading themevery day and you might have a way to
kind of trade normally acting stocks,but we're looking for an outlier
situation. And this is where we make alarge percentage of our P&L on the desk
are on these trades. And they're rare.They don't happen every week. They don't
even happen every month, right? youmight get one or two a quarter. Um, but
when you break down your P&L at the endof the quarter, you realize, yeah, I
mean, a huge percent of it came from atrade like this because it's so
powerful. And then that's why we pour somuch of our energy into studying these
types of setups.I just want to emphasize that if you're
trading an RSIbasedstrategy and you're trying to trade this
overextension short and you're takingone a week, I think it's a good time to
go back in playbook,>> right? Yeah. Unless it's just a really
great month for this kind of stuff>> actually. I mean, it could, but usually,
yeah, there's a couple massive A+opportunities each year for the desk.
So, let's look at the MSTR chart becauseI want to show a few more of these
examples, Tim, because they just alllook the same and these were all really
big trades on the desk within this samesetup, right? So, here's MSR.
>> Speaking my language.>> Yeah, here's MSTR. And this is just what
we do when we playbook, right? I mean,we just catalog these things and start
to see the similarities. And if you'regoing to use RSI,
um, this is the kind of thing that thatI'd be doing. Um, so same pattern,
right? you get you get a few instancesof a few of the time frames getting
overbought, but they all get overboughtat that high. And if we look at uh SMCI
slide number six, Kurt, very similar.Stay on this one. Yeah, you get it on
all three yet again. And you would havebeen getting it a lot earlier with that
default setting of 70. But I mean, dude,you remember these trades? Literally,
like this SMCI I It was an insane trade.It engulfed the previous two days. That
was the opening range breakdown. So,that's an example of when we didn't do
the calls overnight. You still couldhave. You definitely could have. You got
that gap up into that day. I know theway I traded it was just I was flat
going into that day>> and hit it with size with the zero DTE.
And our team, team Kay Fitz, I rememberwe were all on call and we got them for
I think a buck. Like was it a buck andthey went to 13 or 14 in like a minute
when it cracked?>> Yeah. And then they went to 30.
>> 30 I mean. Yeah. Not 13. Like they Yeah.30. Yeah.
>> It was a It was an unusual optionsopportunity in this trade for sure.
>> That was my biggest trade ever at thetime.
>> Yeah. There's a lot of people's. Um,>> yeah.
>> So, Tim, I mean, looking at this chart,>> I I do want to point out that, you know,
there might have been a few other spotswhere you would have tried this trade.
>> Even looking at the RSI, like I can kindof see one where maybe, you know, the
the daily was above that threshold for awhile. And of course, the whole point is
that we're combining this with priceaction, but also
we might try it and be wrong. And that'sfine, too, because that happens in the
setup. The intermediate term time frame,the 130 was kind of up and down around
that threshold, like overbought for awhile. So then it really just depends on
where that 30 is. And there was aninstance kind of earlier on in that 30
minute chart that it did get overboughtthere. I don't know if it exactly hit
it, but that's not really the point.It's it's not an exact number, but you
might have tried it there and sure itactually did come off. It wasn't quite
the same kind of trade, you know, thethe ultimate um line was. But I think
one thing to just note about thisparticular play is that
we're always calculating the EV in ourhead and we might try it once or twice
before it actually tops because theremight be some fake outs. Like I said
earlier, like that's the risk of thistrade is that
it's going to be a big trade. You don'twant to miss it. It's very easy to get
chopped up on the front side. So, in myopinion, like one of the biggest aspects
of this trade that I'm always reviewingis how well did I do being patient on
the front side, controlling my risk? Andall a lot of that comes down to risk
allocationand like you said earlier to me,
is it ready? How close is it? Right?We're always recalibrating the grade of
the trade in our head so we can figureout how much risk to put on. So if it
doesn't if not all the variables arethere, we might still take the trade,
right? Maybe the RSI is there but someother things are kind of off and we
might check take the trade with lesssize knowing that if this goes higher
it's going to get even better. We'll tryit again. Um so nothing is perfect like
no indicator is perfect, no pricepattern is perfect, um no catalyst is
perfect. There is always going to berandomness and unexpectedness in the
market, but what we're doing is justplaying the probabilities and playing
the riskreward.>> And a lot of times, like you said, we do
take stabs, but with this setup, it iscrazy important to not overstay. You can
try try it, take your stab, but if it uminvalidates your trade and reclaims, you
want to be getting out because thesetype of blowoffs are what you would stay
in if you tried to just hold it and bestubborn.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Well said. So Tim, ifyou had to test an automated model for
this overextensionstrategy,
what signal would you start within hopes to get a profitable strategy?
Like how would you design this in aquant setting?
>> All right. Wait, give me a sec. That'sall right. That's kind of fun. Could I
use multiple or I have to just use one?>> Yeah, you can start wherever you want.
like what like we all know the initialback test is not necessarily going to be
the strategy you test it but>> like where would you start to give you
the best shot of of catching at leastthe the universe of these trades.
>> So I would start with ATRs from thefiveday low and I would use RSI as a
green light metricand I would use consecutive days up. I
those three I think are my favorite. Andthen you would require a gap up into the
day we're looking for a trade. I thinkthe model would perform better than if
you were trying it on flat gaps.>> I completely agree.
>> What do you think though?>> I think that
>> this is kind of fun. I mean>> I think we should do it.
>> Let's get to work.>> We should do it and then we should do an
episode on on whether that made money ornot. Um
>> would you do those three or would youadd anything? So, my only thought there
is that I might not do both the RSI andthe ATRs from the fiveday low
becauseI don't know if they would
cancel each other out, but I woulddefinitely do consecutive days up and a
gap and then some kind of some kind ofoverextension indicator. I'd probably
just start with one like the RSI. LikeI'd probably use the RSI in multiple
time frames and then like all thoseprice action things that you talked
about. Um and and the gap is hu I meanthat's going to that's going to raise
the expected value of this trade a lot.>> I I missed actually my model wouldn't
have been profitable. No way. I thinkyou have to have it on multiple time
frames. That's how we trade these.>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I forgot to mention that 100% you wouldneed to have it on multiple time frames,
>> right? I and you probably would want amore specific entry signal also,
>> right?>> I don't know if like just Yeah, you
could even, you know, just T-wap in offthe open a little bit, but I think maybe
looking for that opening range breakdownmight be the move.
>> I think that's the move, especially ifyou know you're getting a gap up. If
it's starting already extended, you'regetting multiple time frames on the RSI,
three days up in a row,>> two gaps in a row,
>> and a final gap. Like, that's going tobe rare. You're not going to get, like
we said, you might get a trade aquarter, but those are going to be very
powerful trades where I think probablyyou're g you can short that opening
range break and see how it does. Weshould test that. That's a good idea. I
mean, you can even have the model takedifferent stabs and just know when to
get out.>> Like if the model, as long as you're
sizing up the actual day, it might endup, you know, trying it a little early,
like we said, and just not overstay.>> That's true. It's probably going to
trade it better than than I do. Um,>> any closing remarks, though?
>> No, I mean, this has been fun. Um, Ithink that this is a fun trade to talk
about because it's a powerful trade andit definitely is a money maker. So, you
know, the RSI is just one component ofit, but I think breaking down these
these components is key because, youknow, like you have to have checks in
your favor, especially with somethinglike this. So, um,
>> and I would even say, you know what'sinteresting with this setup compared to
certain breakouts, like we definitelycan see breakouts in advance, but
there's some feeling and vibe when yousee silver going absolutely nuts, like
those days leading into Friday and likeover the weekend where like everyone's
talking about it, we're talking about itbefore, you know, the night before and
you're able to game plan.>> Yeah. Like you can do this in all
setups, but there's a different feel tothis overextended.
>> Yeah. The the energy in the room rises.And the reason is because it's a
reactive trade.>> Like a breakout is an initiative trade.
Like nothing's happened yet. So thingshave been resting. The move hasn't been
made. So you have to have animagination. You have to
>> it's compressed. Nothing going toforesee what's going to happen. And so,
but with this, like you see a lot ofdrama before the trade actually occurs.
So, there is this buildup. There is thisenergy to it. And that's what I was
feeling on Tuesday in Bionic when wewere all talking about this trade
because it was like, wow, okay, this isgoing to be big.
>> We got to wait, I think, but like let'ssee what happens over the next couple
days and, you know, let's look at pastexamples and how these indicators are
acting and where are we now. So, it'sit's it is one of the more fun trades to
execute and to plan for. I would 100%agree with you on that. So,
>> it really is and one of the best RRS,risk-to-reward.
>> It's true. Um, all right. Well, on thatnote, everyone, have a great week. We'll
see you next time. We're on Spotify now.Um, check us out there. You can follow
me on Twitter at Garrett Dryen. You canfollow Tim on Twitter. What's your
>> Belden Tim?>> There you go. All right. So, until next
time, have a great week.