No other setup has made more money on the desk than this strategy. And the RSI indicator is by far the most widely used indicator for nailing this setup. The desk just made a huge trade. A massive run followed by a dramatic crack overnight. We traded ourselves. The story behind this trade is wild and the RSI was crucial. Not all trades within a strategy are created equal. We know this. But why do some traders fail to see the difference? We use RSI to spot the signal. And a big part of this is how we customize the settings. We'll get into all of this, but Tim, when did you start thinking about this big silver short? >> I would say it was the week of Christmas. So Monday was the 22nd. I think SLV was getting above 60 at that point. And that's when we started thinking that this could be a big trade. >> Right. And where were you at this point? >> It's funny. Holiday week. I was in Worcester, Massachusetts Friday uh for when we actually traded it. I was in Rhode Island to start the week uh with back home with my parents and Friday I was Friday at the close I was driving the back roads of Vermont up to Ski at Okimo. >> So >> crazy. So what about you? >> Did you did you have FOMO at all? Like were just being in the car being on the slopes during this whole thing? >> When I had service, I had some FOMO. Yeah. Yeah. >> But that was where I know that we had our team looking at this and we were executing for this trade as well. So that helps with the FOMO. >> It does. And that I mean that just kind of speaks to the power of being on a team, right? Is you can you can kind of pick up the slack if somebody's off doing something. And you were still communicating with us about this trait. So you still had input. You just weren't pressing the buttons. Um I >> I was texting on Discord. >> Yeah. Right. I was I was at my in-laws house because this happened over Christmas. This is why we were all gone. And I was pressing buttons on my laptop in my in-laws living room when it's absurd. >> I think I think Maggie's dad was like watching the the Eagles game or something like that and I'm I'm just zoned in on the silver chart. So, all right. So, what was this trade? Uh this was this was a big silver short. So, we're we're expressing it with SLV, right? So, what what was this trade? So SLV broke out the week of Thanksgiving in a major fashion. Broke out of a huge weekly base. SLV broke out Thanksgiving week and then this trade happened Christmas week, both holiday weeks is just it's funny. It >> It is funny because it was literally Thanksgiving. It was when it broke out. It was either the the day after the Friday I think it was. I was I was in my dad's kitchen on my laptop again trading that one. >> Um just holiday holiday trade. So yeah, it broke out over Thanksgiving and then topped >> over Christmas. Um so this is a this is a big trade for us. Like I mean everyone has different playbooks and you know certain trades are bigger than others but for our entire desk this is a really really big playbook that a lot of people on our desk trade well. Um how would you define this playbook? >> But I would define it when you get a stock that is overextended on multiple time frames. you are then looking for a potential top and a blowoff as we call it and you're looking to capture that backside. >> Okay. So, it's a short trade after something is run >> um in an unusual way, right? So, we're look it's I would classify it as an outlier situation where something gets extraordinarily extended and then and then you look for the short >> and it's falls under the mean reversion playbook. So, we've talked about trend following in past episodes. This is now mean reversion, >> right? We did we did talk about the gold trade and I forget which episode, but one of them and in which we covered a trade that was within this playbook. Um, both metals, which is kind of funny because that's the kind of year it's been. >> It's been the year of the commodities. >> Yeah. Um, so all right. So, this was a this was a mean reversion short um in silver. It happened over um Christmas and to me I mean this happened in a very unusual way because it was over Christmas. A lot happened overnight. Um it wasn't the the top was actually overnight. It was such a big event on the daily chart. I mean days leading up to this thing that it was running every single day. I think it closed at the highs on Friday and then ripped um into the futures open on Monday um or Sunday night rather and then just flushed hard into the open and then throughout that Monday when we opened. >> All right, let's let's slow it down a little bit. Garrett, let's look at the chart. Kurt, you want to pull up uh image number one? >> So, what was the actual trade? What did we take? What did we execute on? Yeah. So, Friday we saw that silver sped up and closed at the highs. And that's the second to last candle on this chart. So, you can see that big green candle. And just notice like the trend and and and this speed up of the trend is really important. And then we got that gap up and that huge run on Friday and a close of the highs. And so, we're thinking like we're getting really close, right? This is this is getting to the point in the trade where this is getting so extended that we want to find some way to express a trade. >> Would you like to gain the biggest edge a retail trader can get? All of our daily and weekly in-house trader meetings are now available to you. Just head over to smbtraingfloor.com to find out more. And you mentioned RSI. What's interesting with this setup, this parabolic short, the overextended short, RSI is a huge tool because a lot of the times, and you can see it since the breakout from Thanksgiving, we'll hear on the desk and you'll just hear from traders in general where they're like, "It's still too early." And there's a lot of merit to that. like saying that is really really significant. But what was what was different on this Friday for you? >> Yeah. So I'll tell you a little story about that. So I host these bionic trader meetings on Tuesdays and we go over signals like this, right? Like the RSI, like how we on the desk use the RSI. We talk about some of the indicators that we've developed and we share them. um and we were going over silver. So, this would be Tuesday. We're talking about putting the trade on Friday. So, this was four days before um the top before we put that trade on. And I was outlining how we were seeing this as a potential really great mean reversion setup. And we were talking about what a big opportunity this could become. And as we looked at all the variables, we decided that it was early. Though we really like this trade, we would love to see it extend more and speed up more before we really put on the risk. Um, and so that is something that we say a lot, right? We might love a trade, but we might say it's early. And so fast forward to Friday, what changed was the acceleration of this move. So it was already up a lot. It was already late stage in this move. But what we really wanted to see was the speed up. We wanted to see it extend. And this is something that the RSI can measure and and we have a specific way of using it to actually capture that acceleration, which you can't totally see in the RSI on this chart, but we'll show that in a second. Um, we were looking at Kelner channels, which is ATRs above a moving average and just going to historical examples of SLV, silver, gold, other metals in other regimes where the trend got out of hand and it sped up and went parabolic. And we were looking at those shorts and looking at what those indicators looked like at those moments and comparing it to here. And one of the interesting things that I find about this trade is that it's silver. It's a metal, right? And we talked about gold. Same thing. These commodities can act a little bit different than stocks. And that's always in the back of my mind when I'm trading these because do you want to sit in on all of our daily and weekly in-house trader meetings? There's no bigger edge retail traders can get. Visit smbtradingfloor.com to learn more. >> Stocks tend to blow off really fast, right? As soon as they get out of hand. It might be options driven or whatever. These commodities can go on a lot further than we think. I mean, so can stocks, but commodities really tend to do that, especially like I mean, stuff like natural gas, what do they call it? Like the widow maker because they just have they just have drivers behind them that can create these squeezes. So um so I just thought that on Friday when we get that close after a big gap where the range expands and you can see that on the chart you know we're thinking it's getting very close now it's no longer early it might gap up but if it does that's even better and at that point this is becoming an A+ setup >> in another way even to say it a lot of people like to use the analogy of a rubber band for this setup where you can only stretch a rubber band so far before it snaps back. And commodities, you can maybe stretch it a little bit more than certain uh stock squeezes. So on Tuesday, that was when it was really starting to peak our interest. And at that point, I think we were talking with our team and we were like, this might have a couple more days left. >> Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, for that, I would just say with a trade like this, context is everything. Um, we, you know, we have our ways of getting involved. We have our intraday setups and things like that that might, you know, our opening range breaks and things like that that might tell us that this trade is triggered. But we we need a really great context for a trade like this. And by context, I just mean some overall environment filter that says yellow light, green light, right? Where that green light is like, okay, now we're looking for the trade. because it's very easy to get run over and it's very easy to be trying this on the front side too early and just getting chopped up and chopped up and chopped up. That really is the risk of this trade. And so it in my opinion, you have to have ways of keeping that in check and measuring these things in order to define that context. And that's really where like these indicators come into play for something like this. I completely agree. >> So, you know, as Tim, you and I both have done a lot of quant work, right? And that's something that we have a lot of experience in. And so because of that, we've dealt with a lot of testing of strategies and a lot of variables because when you're testing a strategy, it really forces you to quantify market dynamics because you start to realize that you can't tell an algorithm, hey, like when this gets out of hand, short it. Or when this gets out of hand, give me a heads up. When this when it becomes up too much, let me know. Right? like you have to define up too much. There's no other way around it. And so now all of a sudden you're thinking about how can I quantify that and you're either inventing metrics that will describe what you want to see or you're using perhaps existing indicators like the RSI to define that. And so I think a lot of the times discretionary traders sort of lose this point because we're so busy as discretionary traders getting a feel for things and having intuition that we start to lose the fact that we're act we're able to use data to quantify things like the context and it's really important in a in a trade like this like so what about this particular setup to you forces us to quantify Just like you said with a model, just saying it's up too much does not give you the conviction. And similar to the quant work we're doing and like using trade data as we call it, discretionary version of that is just checks in favor. More checks in favor means this is a better setup. So as a discretionary trader, you're looking for many checks in favor to tell you that this is up up too much, right? Yeah. So, I mean, we I've done some videos on YouTube, you know, and I've I've because of the quant work we've done, I've I've done a number of of videos about indicators. And one thing that I notice is that in the comments when you talk about indicators, you get two camps of people, right? And I know there are people in between, but the people that tend to comment are either >> saying, "Thank you for providing the answer to all of my problems. Now I can make millions of dollars. This is what I've been looking for." Or it's indicators or the particular indicator you're talking about has no edge. It's lagging. Like I only use charts. I only use chart patterns. I pride myself in that. Your indicators are trash. And for some reason, and I don't know why, it awakens such a polarizing stance, right? Do you? >> Sure does. It's insane. >> And so, who is right? I mean, out of both parties, first off, yeah, there are armies on both sides. And I would argue they're both not right. the ones that say this indicator is the Lord and Savior, I would argue that just one indicator alone uh will not help you trade every single setup and a full diverse playbook. And I would argue on the other end that if you're thinking an indicator is lagging, we'll get into what even is an indicator because that's a whole different story. But if you think I'm never going to use an indicator, it's lagging. You're missing out on a ton of information that the market gives you every second, >> right? I mean, indicators are not strategies, right? They're just tools. They're data points. They're ways for us to describe variables of these strategies. And everything's lagging. Everything's historical data. Like even even your your awesome um work on fundamental analysis Tim is stuff that everybody knows or can know right because it's out it's history right chart chart data is historical like I would argue that candlestick charts is an indicator >> high low open close historical data of high low and close we didn't always have that can you imagine trading back in um 1929 N you're Jesse Livermore. You're just that you're reading the ticker tape as the as it's coming out of the machine looking at the quotes and then someone comes in with a computer and shows you candlestick charts of the historical price data and explains this is the high, low, open, close of all of these time periods. Like check out this indicator I created. You'd be like this is wild. I'm >> You told me Jesse Livermore didn't use MACD. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So, you know, I think in a way like I like to think of it as like a broadening the idea of indicators, right? The fact that like kind of any data that we look at in a way is an indicator and it's not just you know your your classic RSI and MACD. Um I mean Paul Tudtor Jones like what did he do? How what was he doing? >> Yeah, I mean that's kind of fun. Let's think about it. Like what was he doing 70s and 80s if he saw an overextended short like silver? Like it could have been in corn futures, but >> I mean he didn't he didn't use indicators like we're talking about RSI. >> So there there's a great YouTube movie. I think it's it's probably still on YouTube. I forget what it's called, but you can probably just >> I've watched Yeah, you just type in Paul Tudtor Jones movie or something like that. And it follows him around during the 1987 crash. It's it's gold. And I mean, you get all the vintage 80s vibes in there, but you get to see him on the phone. You get to see him working with his assistant. And this is right in the thick of it. I think this was right before the crash. And they're talking I think the market's still running up if I remember correctly. But he gets with his assistant and his assistant has printed out all of these analoges to 1987. So I think they had the big one was 1929 and they were taking the charts and they were superimposing them and comparing the run in 1929 to the run in 1987 and saying the same stuff that we've been talking about which is I think we're close because they're they're looking at the slope of the chart and trying to figure out like does this is this a check in favor? does this qualify for something that is going parabolic that is going to blow off and they were they were I think they were long at the time but they were they were looking for the end. So he was looking at his playbook. Maybe it was the Friday right before that Monday and he was like this is pretty similar in terms of an extension, >> right? >> I I I agree. >> Um but it's in the way that's just indicators back then too. It was the candlestick data. >> Yeah. So so indicators are just math. It's just statistics, you know. They're not traders. They're not strategy. So we just think of them in a black and white fashion. If we want the data, we get the data. That's that's all it is. And so it's really important to understand, in my opinion, what your indicators are measuring and and the nuances of them and and when they work and when they don't. So can you think of instances, Tim, where indicators are dangerous? Like using a certain indicator might be completely the wrong thing to do? >> Yeah. Yeah. I I have a couple. I would say one of them would be a strategy that's just based on shorting RSI of 70 or buying RSI when it drops to 30. Another example I would even say uh is with the moving averages where we only look at moving averages certain moments when stocks are doing certain things and other times they're completely useless. Like if a stock's been in a range for a year or let's say even a month range, it's been in a month range. Looking at the moving averages and trying to play like any moving average cross is just going to lead to you getting chopped up and taking a million paper cuts. >> Okay. Yeah. So, so there are there are certain signals that you don't like. for instance, the RSI on those default settings, which we can which we're going to get into, or certain indicators have environments where they work and where they don't. And I totally agree with you about the the moving average thing because that's that's a trend. If we're not in a trend, the moving average is going to be um meaningless. How do you like to use indicators? Because you don't always have to just use it for an entry signal. Like what are some of the ways that you like to use them? Honestly, I yeah, I re really don't use them for entry singles signals at all. Uh indicators for me really just play into the context and we look at not just a single indicator like we mentioned, um but we have ones that we're always looking at on our charts and I use them to just give context for the playbook trades. So, they're not trades alone like we mentioned, but the ones I like to use RSI, uh, the moving averages, looking at the Kelners, and all that's doing is telling me more about the stock and where it's at, where it's positioned compared to the market, and it's the context. >> Okay, >> but I would never I would never honestly trade just off of it alone. And even our models, like man, we we don't even trade off one. like we have multiple entry criteria, >> right? And I I think another great way to use them is for filtering >> because, >> you know, you can like someone might say, "Oh, I can just see it in the chart." And that's great. I think that's true. Like, you know, especially if you can do that, if you have those skills, which I think, you know, you should, um, then that's a that's true almost 100% of the time. But at the same time, if you were to say, "Well, then if you can see it in the chart, show me the 10 stocks in the market that that are the most overextended right now. How are you going to see that in the chart?" You've got to create some filter for that. So, you can use something like the RSI or some input to get a list. Um, so I think that's one of my favorite ways to use them. Um, and and in this case, we're looking at outlier situations. So, I like to use indicators to spot outlier scenarios. Some people like to trade off indicators with stocks doing normal stock things, and that's fine. I like to set my indicators so that they're very extreme. And we're going to do this with the RSI in a second because this is this is how we use it. But I like to have my settings in such a way that it's going to alert me to something that is very rare. And in that case, it's more meaningful to me when I see it and it's not just so much noise. Like I'm looking at this thing all the time and there's all these signals and then I have to decide if the signal is meaningful or not. I'm kind of just following the price action looking at the tape and then I kind of have my indicators and every once in a while it's like whoa. Okay. like this is this is get this is crazy. This is worth my attention. >> Um >> it makes a lot of sense. Do you ever use them for anything like just what's normal price action per se or >> um I would say the my favorite thing to use that is just a normal cycle is just that volatility cycle that we use which is um anyone who has used or heard of the TTM squeeze. It's basically looking at when a stock is super compressed and that happens all the time. stocks get compressed, but it's a great way to understand the stage that the stock is in and how much energy it has. But I'm always combining that with the price action and the news and whether it's a leader and you know whether the the the chart looks good, right? So it's not standing on its own. >> Have you heard this study of tens of millions of traders which shows that only 1% of retail traders actually make it? Don't be a statistic. Visit smbtradingfloor.com to greatly increase your odds. >> Real quick, I don't want to dive too much back into the whole indicators are just math, but I mean the vault cycle was something that you created. Uh, you know, you've done a ton of work with indicators and that might be a good example of how you really can um customize and create your own indicators and what you're doing is a lot of math >> to make the signal better. I mean it's it's fun and like we started doing it because of the quant stuff and then and then you kind of find that certain things have value so you bring it into the the real world and maybe make an alert or something like that. So with this silver trade like what are we trying to quantify like if we just if if no indicators existed and you had to tell me like I need an alert or I need I need a indicator that tells me X Y and Z. Like what are we trying to define here? We're really trying to define when it becomes overextended. So like when it becomes so strong and so just so unusually strong that it's unsustainable. But what's interesting like RSI is what gauges that strength and what we're really have to with this overextended short and like what makes one of the trades an A+ trade is when it becomes that this move is unsustainable like it can't be at these prices anymore. >> I would classify that as acceleration. That's how I would look at it. Um, we can have a stock that's up a lot, and Lance does a great job talking about this, and it's so true. We can have a stock that's up a lot on a percent basis, or up a lot over a quarter, but if it's just grinding in a linear fashion, that means it's price accepting and going higher and price accepting and going higher, and nothing's really changing. It's just trending. So what edge do we really have to step in and short that? >> Yeah. If the pl uh the slope of price is one that is just a normal trend, >> right? So when something is up a lot, it's trending, it's trending, it is getting extended. What we really want to see is not only something that has high velocity, but high acceleration. We want to see the parabolic nature of that price path increase. And that's really just euphoria, right? That's shorts getting blown out. That's longs getting exuberant in the the late stage of the cycle. That's um people who have been long for maybe the whole move are starting to think, my gosh, like I should take profits. It's like a perfect storm. And it gets so extended from those moving averages that now all of a sudden the riskreward like the meat on the bone for that pullback becomes greater and shorts will step in like on our desk and we get that snapback which tends to be quite violent. Um and I would say like something on this silver like we're just looking for a day trade like we're not you're not trying to swing this right like do you have a fundamental view of silver like it should be done? >> No. And first, that's also when you have people on Twitter saying, "If you're getting long silver up here, you're insane." Like, everyone on Twitter was like, "How could you be getting long up here?" Almost like mocking them. But yeah, it it's a very different thing when it comes to commodities, when it comes to silver, the gold that we talked about where they do have some fundamental driver. Maybe they overshot and that's why we're looking for this trade. But there is some reason behind the move. And in a lot of cases with this setup, there isn't like it could be a company that has zero revenue, uh, isn't changing the world, not involved in AI. Sounds like Beyond Meat is Beyond Meat. And what that gets into though is you can see it in certain stocks when they make that crazy of a move, that extended of a move, RSI gets above 80, it gets above 90, and this is really worth a dollar or worth zero, it becomes so unsustainable where it can't it really can't sustain at these prices. So, you're more likely to see this short setup, I would say, in those, but it's a different it's a different thing because they're not supposed to be up there and they may never get up there again, right? Whereas, you know, something like gold, like we covered in another episode, and this silver, like they they've got major macro drivers behind them. And, you know, there's a there's a bigger force at play. And we're not we're not trying to be analysts and think far out and say, you know, this is this is it for forever. We're just trying to make a day trade based on the technical dynamics of this trade. And the same technical dynamics that play out on silver play out on something like Beyond Meat that might be overvalued. The difference is that um I personally I would be much more comfortable swinging that short in Beyond or something that I know got out of hand even just dislocated from its value. Whereas I mean with these metals like I'm not a macro expert. I know that there are a lot of fundamental drivers behind these things. For all I know, silver gathers itself and goes higher. I mean, we shorted gold. >> I don't know when was that, October or something. >> Yeah. >> And that was another kind of day trade um for me. And what what happened? Well, it did come off and then it consolidated and then it made a new all-time high, you know, I don't know, a couple months later. So, >> well, in the start of the moves, like for gold and silver, it's like central banks buying and like and there's a ton, like you said, other drivers. Yeah, >> but when you have a Beyond Meat going insane or any random lowflat going insane, it's less of there's a ton of people buying this. It's a liquidity trap. It's a short squeeze in a major way where it's not just fresh buying, it's shorts then having to uh buy stock to cover their positions and you get those squeeze dynamics. So it's it's a very different setup and at the same time like you said you can trade them the exact same way and the technicals are very similar. >> So would the desk have made millions of dollars on this trade if it weren't for RSI? >> That's a pretty that's a pretty interesting question. Like I so the answer is yes. I I 100% think they would have because it's not as great. RSI is the most popular indicator for being able to see when it's up too much, but by no means is it the only indicator. And for the desk, there are a lot of other ways that we could have looked at silver and thought this is ready. So, you can look at the number of days up. You can look at we've already mentioned kind of the Kelner channels. You can look at, you know, how far it is from key moving averages, the extension gaps, but there's multiple ways that you could see it. And I mean, speaking of seeing it, you could even see it with your own eye. Um, which, you know, does come from seeing a ton of examples marking these up, but you could even just do the eye test and have an idea. So, I would say the answer is yeah. >> Yeah. And I mean, what do you think? >> Yeah. the RSI happens to be the most popular indicator used for this setup and it happens to be highly effective. Um, so I think it's great, but I think to that whole indicator argument that we had before where you have your polarized views, you know, there are many ways to skin a cat. So I agree there there are other indicators that that do the same thing and you just have to know your indicators and that's what we'll go over this in a second. And Tim, I want to show you the the custom settings that I like to use, but Oh, yeah. Um, you can, you know, and I like to I always have to see the chart with my eyes and and feel that acceleration, understand what the tape feels like. But there is something to be said for you're sitting there every day like Tuesday when I'm doing Bionic Trader, I'm talking about what a big OP this can be and I'm having to restrain myself from shorting it, right? Like I'm thinking this is this is getting close. this is really this could be really good. What if I miss it? Should I should we put this trade on now >> that we just did? Right. And so, >> yeah, >> for me, it's not that like I'm just looking at something like the RSI and it's the only way to do it, but in those moments, you can lean on those indicators to kind of keep you in check. Like you said earlier, checks in favor. what we didn't have certain checks in favor with the indicators that we normally do. And so that just gives me that extra little objective perspective on the whole thing to to kind of calm me down and say, "Okay, like let's be let's be reasonable here. It's early, right?" And just follow the process. So I think I think these things can be really really helpful for for that kind of exercise. Um I like to look at these on multiple time frames. So, there's two keys, Tim, to to why this becomes effective. And I see this happen on the desk. These these three things that we're going to do. We're going to we're going to change the settings. We're going to change two settings. And we're going to use multiple time frames. And I see this across the desk. It's not just the RSI signal on the daily, right? It's the RSI signal on the daily plus some intermediate time frame like the hourly or like I use the 130 minute chart. and then it's on a shorter time frame like the 30 minute chart, right? So, we want to see these signals line up across time frames and we don't want to follow the default settings that everyone gets on their platforms on the RSI because they're way too normal. >> Wait, what do you mean by what are the default settings? >> So, it's it's a 14 period. That's the classic thing. And >> for the look back, you're saying? Yeah. and the overbought is 70 and the oversold is 30. That's those are the thresholds. So the RSI is an oscillator that is bound between zero and 100 and it's measuring the rate of change the the the amount of up moves that are in those candles um in that look back period and the amount of down moves that are in that in the candles during that look back period, right? And it's it's calculating all of that and creating an oscillator where if everything was an up move, an aggressive up move, it would be at 100. And if everything was an aggressive down move, it would be at zero. And if everything was flat, it would be at 50, right? And so we have thresholds on either side that designate >> like this is overbought or this is oversold. That's the classic way to look at it. Um, I don't like using those default settings. >> I was about to ask when you're saying customize, what are you doing? >> Yeah. So, I'm changing the length or the period from 14 to 20. I want it to be longer. It's going to be harder for it to reach 100 or reach 70 or reach 80 if it's a little bit of a longer look back period. Plus, I like 20 because on a daily chart that's about a month of trading days and I use a lot of other indicators at 20 and it just makes sense to me, but it works. And I like to change the thresholds to 80 and 20. And that just requires it to be more overbought for me to get that signal. And now I'm not just looking at those hard levels, but they are the thresholds on the chart. So I want to extend my expectations. And you'll see this across the desk like guys who will use RSI like you know Joe will will he'll type in our chat um on team Kits and he'll say something like such and such RSI is like 75. I'm looking for it like I think tomorrow it can get to 85 and I'll start to get interested. Right. So he's in his head he's using like higher thresholds because because he's done the homework and knows how these things act. >> He almost sometimes Yeah. If it's not even 80, usually it's like this is 90 and Joe's then starting to really pound the table to us. >> Yeah. >> Uh but yeah, he had this is one of his core setups. And similarly, he makes it more difficult. And what that does, what you're getting at is you get the signal less. >> Right. Exactly. You get less signals. They're more discerning. They're more extreme. It cuts out all the noise. Right. Those default settings are for normal stocks. They're for stocks that are behaving like normal children. And we are looking for we are looking for a a devious child that's going to get kicked out of the kindergarten class. So we need an in we need to change our settings to describe that that deviant child. >> I mean SLV here got detention. >> Yeah. So um Kirk, could you bring slide number two up, please? Let's let's actually show some of these charts and and kind of get into it. So, so here are the multiple time frames, Tim. So, on the left, >> yeah, >> we got the daily in the middle. This is my 130 minute chart. Someone could use an hourly chart. I just or a 65 minute chart if you want the candles to all contain within each trading session because it >> I use 130 because of you though. I like it. >> Yeah, I just there's certain reasons why I use 130, which we're not going to get into, but um it it essentially slips uh splits the number of bars evenly across the time frames that I use. It's neither here nor there. And then a 30 minute chart on the right. And we have the RSI down below. And so you can see that it's an oscillator. So that dotted line is the 50 line. So that's the middle. And you can see the upper bound and the lower bound. And those are the thresholds. And on Thinker Swim here, when it hits that upper threshold, it lights up in pink. And so you can see on the chart, and this is our SLV trade, that the daily chart finally lit up in pink. And then at the same time, the 130 minute chart finally lit up in pink. And then we had for that entire day, the 30 minute chart lighting up in pink. So once we had all of those aligned, you have a really strong contextual signal. And in fact, and we're not showing it here, the weekly chart was also lighting up in pink as well. We were actually even talking about it today with a separate trade, but it's always interesting. Sometimes you'll get it where it could be overextended on just the hourly, but not the daily, and that becomes a whole different setup. But when you have all the time frames, that's really screaming that this is ready. Like, like we said, it could go up more, but this is getting real close. >> Yeah. >> And that shows it's so clear there. And you don't get the signal that much. Like with that 80, you're only getting the signal right pretty much like on that Friday. That's I It's hard to see here, but I believe it was on that Friday for the daily, right? >> Uh yeah. Yeah, it was on the Friday. And then we get the gap down and and we'll show other examples of different trades with these settings and and with the same charts >> just to kind of show that this is repeatable. Um, but I I really want to I think it's really important to talk about why these multiple time frames are important. So, we talked about acceleration before and how that's a big part of this trade. That's a huge check in our favor. We don't want it just to be up a lot. We want to see it start to accelerate. And so if we use multiple time frames and get the same signal on multiple time frames, the shorter time frames are what are telling us about that acceleration. So the daily chart is telling us that it's up a lot. And then if it's also up a lot on the 130 minute chart and the 30, that means it's accelerating. That means those shorter time frames are also parabolic. So, it's not just a higher time frame that's parabolic, but the shorter time frames are parabolic. And when you combine all of those, you get that parabolic move. And so, you know, this is the kind of stuff that we learn when we when we test our models, right? Because we'll we'll figure these things out and realize, oh yeah, that's one of the ways to to measure acceleration. Here's a mindbending stat for you. SMB traders have 20x to 40x higher odds of success than independent traders. Find out why and how to greatly increase your odds by visiting smbtradingfloor.com. >> You want to look at some examples of just past ones cuz this I mean like we said this is a huge trade. The desk has made millions on this trade. We've traded some huge opportunities in the past and I kind of want to look at it. >> What do you think? >> Yeah, let's do it. >> All right. We should probably show the GLD because we traded this one most recently. >> So, this is GLD and it looks very similar. Um, we we had a whole podcast about this, but we didn't talk about indicators. We just talked about the euphoria behind this move. Um, and how extraordinary it was. Um, it's it's not hard to see that the daily chart is up a lot, but the funny thing is is that if we rewound this, it would look like it's up a lot during a lot of that move. So, well, and if you had the RSI at 70, you would have been looking at you would have thought you had your signal a lot earlier. >> Yeah. In in fact, we can we can show what that looks like um in a second when we use the default settings. Um but yeah, I mean you can just it's the same thing and that's what I love about it's it's very simple, right? You get um you kind of got an early signal there which did have a big sell-off but that signal didn't occur on the 30 minute um and then it went higher and you got the signal again and you get the signal at the 30 like pretty much right at the top and then you get the sell-off. So, I mean, the the power of the multiple time frame thing is very significant for this particular setup >> and when you get all of them. >> Yeah. And and we're not we're not always doing the call buy calls short stock thing. That was very specific to SLV. Um sometimes, you know, you're just waiting for that next day or you're waiting for that gap up and it gets there and then you get your opening range break and it just becomes a great day trade. Like when we covered this, we were day trading it pretty much the whole time. >> That U-turn setup tends to be a really good intraday pattern as well to just wait for that, which is that opening range break. >> Yeah. >> Um, >> so yeah, let's look at the default settings. >> Okay, so how crazy it is. >> Yeah, Kirk, could you please bring up slide number three? So this is SLV default setting. So clearly you're getting signals everywhere. >> A lot of pink >> and that's just what happens on a strong stock. Like they're going to stay overbought for a while. Um, we know this. We've looked at a lot of these and that's why I say those it's it's much harder for me to look at something like that because how can I rely on that? And that's what I mean about I really want to set my indicators so that they're they're measuring extreme outlier situations. >> Well, because if you're not and you're getting the signal every day, then you need other reasons to not be looking for the short. >> Exactly. >> It just clouds it so much more. >> Exactly. And you know, you're not going to get a setup like this every day, right? And that's what I mean about like if you're going to use the default settings, you might be trading them every day and you might have a way to kind of trade normally acting stocks, but we're looking for an outlier situation. And this is where we make a large percentage of our P&L on the desk are on these trades. And they're rare. They don't happen every week. They don't even happen every month, right? you might get one or two a quarter. Um, but when you break down your P&L at the end of the quarter, you realize, yeah, I mean, a huge percent of it came from a trade like this because it's so powerful. And then that's why we pour so much of our energy into studying these types of setups. I just want to emphasize that if you're trading an RSIbased strategy and you're trying to trade this overextension short and you're taking one a week, I think it's a good time to go back in playbook, >> right? Yeah. Unless it's just a really great month for this kind of stuff >> actually. I mean, it could, but usually, yeah, there's a couple massive A+ opportunities each year for the desk. So, let's look at the MSTR chart because I want to show a few more of these examples, Tim, because they just all look the same and these were all really big trades on the desk within this same setup, right? So, here's MSR. >> Speaking my language. >> Yeah, here's MSTR. And this is just what we do when we playbook, right? I mean, we just catalog these things and start to see the similarities. And if you're going to use RSI, um, this is the kind of thing that that I'd be doing. Um, so same pattern, right? you get you get a few instances of a few of the time frames getting overbought, but they all get overbought at that high. And if we look at uh SMCI slide number six, Kurt, very similar. Stay on this one. Yeah, you get it on all three yet again. And you would have been getting it a lot earlier with that default setting of 70. But I mean, dude, you remember these trades? Literally, like this SMCI I It was an insane trade. It engulfed the previous two days. That was the opening range breakdown. So, that's an example of when we didn't do the calls overnight. You still could have. You definitely could have. You got that gap up into that day. I know the way I traded it was just I was flat going into that day >> and hit it with size with the zero DTE. And our team, team Kay Fitz, I remember we were all on call and we got them for I think a buck. Like was it a buck and they went to 13 or 14 in like a minute when it cracked? >> Yeah. And then they went to 30. >> 30 I mean. Yeah. Not 13. Like they Yeah. 30. Yeah. >> It was a It was an unusual options opportunity in this trade for sure. >> That was my biggest trade ever at the time. >> Yeah. There's a lot of people's. Um, >> yeah. >> So, Tim, I mean, looking at this chart, >> I I do want to point out that, you know, there might have been a few other spots where you would have tried this trade. >> Even looking at the RSI, like I can kind of see one where maybe, you know, the the daily was above that threshold for a while. And of course, the whole point is that we're combining this with price action, but also we might try it and be wrong. And that's fine, too, because that happens in the setup. The intermediate term time frame, the 130 was kind of up and down around that threshold, like overbought for a while. So then it really just depends on where that 30 is. And there was an instance kind of earlier on in that 30 minute chart that it did get overbought there. I don't know if it exactly hit it, but that's not really the point. It's it's not an exact number, but you might have tried it there and sure it actually did come off. It wasn't quite the same kind of trade, you know, the the ultimate um line was. But I think one thing to just note about this particular play is that we're always calculating the EV in our head and we might try it once or twice before it actually tops because there might be some fake outs. Like I said earlier, like that's the risk of this trade is that it's going to be a big trade. You don't want to miss it. It's very easy to get chopped up on the front side. So, in my opinion, like one of the biggest aspects of this trade that I'm always reviewing is how well did I do being patient on the front side, controlling my risk? And all a lot of that comes down to risk allocation and like you said earlier to me, is it ready? How close is it? Right? We're always recalibrating the grade of the trade in our head so we can figure out how much risk to put on. So if it doesn't if not all the variables are there, we might still take the trade, right? Maybe the RSI is there but some other things are kind of off and we might check take the trade with less size knowing that if this goes higher it's going to get even better. We'll try it again. Um so nothing is perfect like no indicator is perfect, no price pattern is perfect, um no catalyst is perfect. There is always going to be randomness and unexpectedness in the market, but what we're doing is just playing the probabilities and playing the riskreward. >> And a lot of times, like you said, we do take stabs, but with this setup, it is crazy important to not overstay. You can try try it, take your stab, but if it um invalidates your trade and reclaims, you want to be getting out because these type of blowoffs are what you would stay in if you tried to just hold it and be stubborn. >> Yeah, absolutely. Well said. So Tim, if you had to test an automated model for this overextension strategy, what signal would you start with in hopes to get a profitable strategy? Like how would you design this in a quant setting? >> All right. Wait, give me a sec. That's all right. That's kind of fun. Could I use multiple or I have to just use one? >> Yeah, you can start wherever you want. like what like we all know the initial back test is not necessarily going to be the strategy you test it but >> like where would you start to give you the best shot of of catching at least the the universe of these trades. >> So I would start with ATRs from the fiveday low and I would use RSI as a green light metric and I would use consecutive days up. I those three I think are my favorite. And then you would require a gap up into the day we're looking for a trade. I think the model would perform better than if you were trying it on flat gaps. >> I completely agree. >> What do you think though? >> I think that >> this is kind of fun. I mean >> I think we should do it. >> Let's get to work. >> We should do it and then we should do an episode on on whether that made money or not. Um >> would you do those three or would you add anything? So, my only thought there is that I might not do both the RSI and the ATRs from the fiveday low because I don't know if they would cancel each other out, but I would definitely do consecutive days up and a gap and then some kind of some kind of overextension indicator. I'd probably just start with one like the RSI. Like I'd probably use the RSI in multiple time frames and then like all those price action things that you talked about. Um and and the gap is hu I mean that's going to that's going to raise the expected value of this trade a lot. >> I I missed actually my model wouldn't have been profitable. No way. I think you have to have it on multiple time frames. That's how we trade these. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> I forgot to mention that 100% you would need to have it on multiple time frames, >> right? I and you probably would want a more specific entry signal also, >> right? >> I don't know if like just Yeah, you could even, you know, just T-wap in off the open a little bit, but I think maybe looking for that opening range breakdown might be the move. >> I think that's the move, especially if you know you're getting a gap up. If it's starting already extended, you're getting multiple time frames on the RSI, three days up in a row, >> two gaps in a row, >> and a final gap. Like, that's going to be rare. You're not going to get, like we said, you might get a trade a quarter, but those are going to be very powerful trades where I think probably you're g you can short that opening range break and see how it does. We should test that. That's a good idea. I mean, you can even have the model take different stabs and just know when to get out. >> Like if the model, as long as you're sizing up the actual day, it might end up, you know, trying it a little early, like we said, and just not overstay. >> That's true. It's probably going to trade it better than than I do. Um, >> any closing remarks, though? >> No, I mean, this has been fun. Um, I think that this is a fun trade to talk about because it's a powerful trade and it definitely is a money maker. So, you know, the RSI is just one component of it, but I think breaking down these these components is key because, you know, like you have to have checks in your favor, especially with something like this. So, um, >> and I would even say, you know what's interesting with this setup compared to certain breakouts, like we definitely can see breakouts in advance, but there's some feeling and vibe when you see silver going absolutely nuts, like those days leading into Friday and like over the weekend where like everyone's talking about it, we're talking about it before, you know, the night before and you're able to game plan. >> Yeah. Like you can do this in all setups, but there's a different feel to this overextended. >> Yeah. The the energy in the room rises. And the reason is because it's a reactive trade. >> Like a breakout is an initiative trade. Like nothing's happened yet. So things have been resting. The move hasn't been made. So you have to have an imagination. You have to >> it's compressed. Nothing going to foresee what's going to happen. And so, but with this, like you see a lot of drama before the trade actually occurs. So, there is this buildup. There is this energy to it. And that's what I was feeling on Tuesday in Bionic when we were all talking about this trade because it was like, wow, okay, this is going to be big. >> We got to wait, I think, but like let's see what happens over the next couple days and, you know, let's look at past examples and how these indicators are acting and where are we now. So, it's it's it is one of the more fun trades to execute and to plan for. I would 100% agree with you on that. So, >> it really is and one of the best RRS, risk-to-reward. >> It's true. Um, all right. Well, on that note, everyone, have a great week. We'll see you next time. We're on Spotify now. Um, check us out there. You can follow me on Twitter at Garrett Dryen. You can follow Tim on Twitter. What's your >> Belden Tim? >> There you go. All right. So, until next time, have a great week.