If you don't want to be like everyone
else, broke, stressed, and stuck on a
hamster wheel, focus on making your
first 100k. As someone who grew up broke
and is now a self-made
multi-millionaire, I can tell you that
the first 100k was the hardest to reach.
But once I did, everything else changed.
So in this video, I'm giving you an
eight-step road map to your first 100k.
So if I had to start from zero, the very
first thing I'd do is eliminate
everything that numbs you. And let me
explain. So ask yourself, right? What is
motivating you to reach 100k? Is it your
toxic job? Do you want to provide for
your family? Or are you just tired of
being broke? Now, all of these were my
reasons, too. But whatever it is for
you, I need you to marinate with that
pain, right? And use that pain as a
superpower so that you can stay focused
and keep on pushing on this road map. So
I hated working in corporate America.
Super toxic co-workers, had to work
12-13 hour days, and the pain from that
made me want to make a lot of money and
be my own boss. And so Tik Tok and
YouTube's algorithm, it knew that,
right? So it fed me a lot of content
about making money and side hustles. And
every time I watched these videos,
right? I felt good about myself, even
though I didn't actually do anything.
Watching people talk about success or
how to make money, that alone
temporarily numbed the pain and the
drive that I had to make a lot of money.
And this sounds weird, but without the
pain, right? Without the drive, I was
more willing to accept where I was,
which caused me to push less and to slow
down on my path to 100k. And the only
way to stay focused is by subtraction,
right? Not addition. Meaning you need to
get rid of all the noise, everything
that distracts you or slows you down on
this path. The reason is being in this
constant state and this drive, right?
That's what's going to make the next
step and all the other steps a lot
easier. All right, so the next step is
to cut three very specific types of
expenses for two reasons. Number one is
this is going to allow you to take on
more risk. And number two, you're going
to have more money to deploy later on to
build passive income. And we'll talk
more about that later. Now, you're not
going to hear anyone else say this, but
I don't want you to stop buying the
little things that make you happy. An
example, iced coffee. The path to 100k
is long and it's going to require work,
right? And you're not going to get there
by cutting out all the little expenses
that make you happy. Think about it,
right? The more miserable you are, the
more likely you are to give up doing
whatever is making you miserable. So, my
recommendation is following the Pareto
principle to cut out very specific
expenses. All right, so the principle
basically states that 80% of outcomes
come from 20% of inputs. So, in other
words, you want to focus on the few
expenses, right? The 20% that takes up
the most amount of your paycheck, right?
So, for most people, this would be
housing, your transportation, and your
food. [music] Starting with housing, and
I'm saying this as someone who went
through this. So, after college, right?
I chose to live at home and commute two
to three hours round trip every day for
years in order to save money. My
coworkers, they didn't want to live at
home with their parents because it
wasn't cool. So, they rented out luxury
apartments that were pretty much walking
distance to work. If you can't live at
home, get some roommates, all right? You
want to minimize your housing expenses
for as long as you can. Next is
transportation. Now, depending on where
you live, uh you will have to have a car
to get around. So, ideally, you have a
used car that's fully paid off.
Otherwise, look into carpooling or
public transportation. Next is food. So,
I used to buy a lot of food in bulk from
Costco. I would meal prep on Sundays for
the entire week, and my lunch came out
to be like two to three dollars compared
to my coworkers who were paying $18 to
get salads from Sweetgreen. The point is
to stack up your cash flow as much as
you can because even though you're
working and you're making money, you're
probably spending most of it right now.
Later on, we're going to use this cash
flow to increase your active and passive
income. But real quick, I built a free
100k roadmap that breaks out exactly
what to do over the next seven days to
set your finances up. This is the exact
process that got me to my first 100k,
and thousands of people have already
used it, so I know it works. So, whether
you're starting from zero or if you've
already got some savings going, this is
my gift to you. It's completely free.
Link is in the description, or go to
vincentchan.co/roadmap.
All right, the third step is to apply
the 44 framework. I'm sure you've heard
the expression before that time is
money. Meaning, if you want to increase
your money, you have to increase your
time. Now, many people are going to
immediately point to their 9-5 job,
right? Thinking that this is what is
taking up all of their time, and it's
what's preventing you from building
wealth. But, the reality is it's not
your job's fault, right? Everyone I know
built their wealth while working a
full-time job. I built this YouTube
channel while working 12-13 hour days in
corporate America. So, disconnect the
idea that your job is the problem.
Instead, let's look at your schedule.
All right, so when I worked a 9-5,
technically mine was like an 8-9 or 10
or whatever. But, let's just go with the
standard 9-5, all right? If we follow
the 44 framework, that means that you
have two blocks of four hours that are
currently unaccounted for. Your 5-9 in
the morning and your 5-9 in the evening.
Now, you can choose to unlock those four
hours by waking up earlier or by
sleeping later or unlock eight hours by
doing both. This is what I personally
did for about a year, right? I did both,
including also working on the weekends.
Um, but I'm going to be straight up,
this is going to suck, and you are going
to definitely need the pain that we
talked about earlier to actually push
through this. Once you've identified
your chunk of time, just hold onto that.
We're going to come back to it later on.
Now, the fourth step is to focus on your
9-5 job. Now, I know everyone wants
passive income immediately, right? But,
the truth is you can only build passive
income if you have enough money coming
in from active income first, right? So,
that's your 9-5 job. And then you use
some of that money to build that passive
income stream. The thing you need to
know that is pretty common for employers
to pay their workers the least amount of
money possible, where it's just enough
that they don't quit. Like, how many
people do you know that haven't gotten a
raise in the past few years, right? Or
if they have, it's like a 3% raise,
which is less than the rate of
inflation. So, essentially, you are
getting paid less than you did the prior
year. So, here I recommend two things,
right? Number one is have the
conversation with your boss. Find out
what similar roles are paying with
Glassdoor or Indeed. And then when you
have the conversation, come in with a
folder of all your accomplishments when
you ask for the raise. The worst your
manager can say is no, and if they do,
you can consider job hopping for either
more money, a new title, more
responsibility, or growth opportunity,
ideally all of that. These conversations
are never easy and it's something that I
struggled with in the very beginning as
well. But if you think about it, right?
Having this 15-minute or 30 minutes of
uncomfortable conversation, that could
be worth tens of thousands of dollars to
you in the form of a raise. All right,
now step five is to build another active
income stream with the chunk of time
that you identified earlier. And this is
where things start to tie together,
right? So, in business, you essentially
get rewarded based on the risk that you
take on. The riskier something is that
you got to do, the more money you're
going to make. And you're not going to
be able to take on risk if you don't
have any time, if you don't have any
money, or if your expenses are really
high, which is why we focused on saving
time and cutting the expenses in the
beginning. The goal here is to increase
the amount of money that we can deploy
later on to build our passive income.
All right, so in that chunk of time that
you've identified, this is what you're
going to start doing, okay? And if you
only remember one thing from this video,
let it be this. You see, the way most
people look into building another income
stream is they come up with a business
idea or a side hustle, and then they try
to fit themselves around that. But the
way to make it sustainable and make the
most amount of money is to find a side
hustle that fits around them. The
easiest way to find out what that means
specifically for you is grab a piece of
paper and draw out three circles in a
Venn diagram. In the first circle, write
down the things that you do for fun. So,
for me, I'm going to put down eating new
foods, video games, taking multi-day
hikes, home DIY projects, making videos,
and telling stories. Now, in the second
circle, write down everything that you
are good at, right? So, for me, it's
personal finance, cooking Asian food,
Excel or Google spreadsheets. Put as
much as you can here, and then in the
third circle, write down things that
people will generally pay you money for.
So, I'm going to put down consulting,
right? Teaching or marketing and data
analysis. The mistake that a A of people
make here is that they only look at one
or two of these circles and then they
think about a side hustle or a business
to start. For example, I love to eat and
one of the first types of content I ever
made was an ASMR video eating channel,
right? And in the beginning, I
absolutely loved it, but I wasn't able
to monetize that at all. So, I ended up
hating that entire thing cuz I was
spending hours doing this work, but I
wasn't making any money. In other words,
if you have something that you love
doing, but it's not something that
people will pay you money for, it's
fine. Just keep it as a hobby, right?
You don't have to monetize everything
you like, which is why we want to focus
on this area that overlaps, right? This
is what I call the profit zone, where
all three circles intersect. So, let's
say we have Excel and data analysis,
right? So, these are what I call
technical skills, um but we also have
storytelling and socializing and video
and stuff like that, right? That's what
I would call more of a soft skill. We
can stack these skills up and be a data
consultant, right? To help businesses or
people make decisions based on data,
because this role requires, one, you
need to understand the numbers and
number two, you need to be able to
present it in a way that people can
understand. Or what I'm doing right now,
right? I like making videos, right? I'm
good at personal finance and I'm good at
teaching complicated financial topics.
So, I started teaching people about
money on YouTube. Stacking the right
skills is what's going to make you more
unique in the value that you provide,
which will allow you to be more
consistent with what you're doing and
make more money over the long term. But
finding your profit zone is only half
the battle, right? So, I always see
people get really excited about starting
a business, right? And they either never
end up starting or they give up too
quickly because they think it's a lot of
work, right? From setting up a and
fixing broken workflows or spreadsheets
and messages and trying to find tools to
patch everything together. But here's
how today's video sponsor, Emergent, can
help. Let's say you make the best
cookies in the world and people pay top
dollar to try them in your bakery.
You're taking orders through the phone,
your website, your Instagram DMs and
you're finding that you're spending
hours taking orders and following up
with customers when all you really want
to do is make cookies. Here's where
Emergent comes in. All right, so simply
ask you to build an order page where
clients can select their cookie, the
time slot to pick it up. You want to
take the payment up front, and you
automatically text these customers
reminders the day before. Oh, and also
show me all the upcoming bookings in one
place. And in just a few minutes,
Emergent automatically built this out.
No technical skills required. And now
you can focus on doing what you love.
Check out Emergent with the link below
and build your custom software simply by
explaining what you want. All right,
great. So, you have this additional
stream of active income, which is great,
but the truth is more income alone is
not going to make you rich. Yes, earning
more is a very important part of our
overall path to 100K, but the next step
is actually turning your active income
into long-term wealth and passive
income. This is where we want to build a
passive income stream so that your money
can make you more money while you sleep,
which will help you get to your goal
faster. Now, I always say no income
stream is 100% passive, right?
Everything requires a bit of work to
start, but the idea here is to make your
money work for you rather than only
selling your time for money. Because
there's only so many jobs and and gigs
that you can do in one week. And one of
the lowest effort ways to build wealth
and generate passive income is by
investing in the stock market. Let's say
we can only invest 20 bucks a day, and
we'll use the S&P 500 as an example, um
which has had an average return of 10%
since the 1950s. If you invest just $20
a day, you would reach 100K in about 8
to 9 years. And if you want to get there
even faster, cut more expenses, increase
your income, and invest more money. If
you want to start investing, the first
thing is to decide how much of your
income you're actually going to invest
every month. And you can start really
small here, even $5 works. The next step
is to decide what to invest in. The
easiest for beginners is with index
funds and ETFs. And I personally made a
lot of money from simple long-term index
fund investing, and it's safe and it's
low maintenance. There are a ton of
options out there, but again, the most
popular one is the S&P 500, which
includes the top 500 largest companies
in the US, all packed into one
investment. You can invest with whatever
investing app you want. The main thing
you want to look out for is that it
offers fractional investing, which means
that you can invest with as little as
$5. I made an entire video on how to
invest for beginners over here. I do a
full walk-through step-by-step. I'll
also leave a link down below if you're
interested. All right, so the next step
and probably the most underrated one is
to avoid falling for lifestyle
inflation. I have a friend who literally
just graduated law school like a month
or two months ago, and she has a 250k
offer already in hand. She's studying
for the bar exam right now and doesn't
start working until October. But she
already bought a brand new BMW and is
already looking to move into a penthouse
apartment. Now, some of you might be
like, she's fine, right? She's making
multiple six figures. But here's the
problem. Let's say Benito and David both
increased their incomes dramatically,
right? Into their late 20s, right?
Benito goes from making 60k at 25 to
120k at 30. Same thing for David. But
Benito kept living like he made 60k and
he was investing the rest. On the other
hand, David started spending more money
to match his 120k salary, right? A
bigger apartment, a nicer car, etc. By
the time they're 40, right? Benito
already has hundreds of thousands of
dollars invested. David might not have
anything invested or worse, he has to
pay all this new debt off from his fancy
lifestyle. It might not seem like a big
difference right now, right? In their
20s or early 30s, but in years, right?
In 10 years, that is the difference
between having to work until 65, 75, 85
or retiring early. Now, I'm not saying
to live like a monk. I want you to enjoy
your life, but you can set up a rule for
yourself. So, for example, my rule was
whenever I got a raise or a bonus, I
only increased the cost of my living or
my life at most 10 or 20% of that raise.
Everything else, I funneled that money
back into my investments, my retirement
accounts, into my business, or into
education. Remember, the goal here is to
get to 100k as quickly as possible,
right? You are going to need to
sacrifice some luxuries in life now for
a bigger reward later. It ultimately
boils down to do you want to be rich or
do you want to look rich? Now, remember
what I said in the beginning, right?
Even though I have multiple seven
figures now, it was reaching that first
100k that made the biggest difference
and was the one that changed my life.
And the reason for that is because of
the critical mass theory. I want you to
imagine rolling a snowball down a very
snowy hill, right? When you roll it,
it's going to pick up more snow, it's
going to get bigger, it's going to get
faster, but you're not going to actually
notice this until it picks up enough
snow first to reach critical mass. In
finance, 100k is that initial critical
mass. And here's what I mean. If you
invest 15k a year in the S&P 500 and
assume a 10% annual return, right? Your
net worth, you will have 100k in 5.36
years. However, 80% of that total 100k
came directly from your cash
contributions, right? Your active
income. It's that 15k that you
originally contributed every year. And
it's only the other 20% that came from
investing in the stock market. But once
you pass that 100k critical mass
threshold, this is when things start to
get interesting, right? If you continue
to invest 15k a year, you're going to
reach a net worth of 200k in 3.53 years.
Then you'll reach 300k in 2.64 years,
400k in 2.11 years, and 500k in 1.75
years. So, you can see, right? The
amount of time it requires you to reach
an additional 100k financial milestone
gets smaller and smaller. Once you're at
a 900k net worth, it's only going to
take you 0.95 years to reach 1 million.
And now, if we look at what makes up the
total 1 million dollars, right? 32%
comes from your direct cash
contributions or your active income,
whereas 68% right? Almost 70% of that is
coming from the stock market alone,
which is why going from a net worth of
900k to 1 million is nearly six times
faster than it takes to go from zero to
100k. That's why it's so important to do
everything you can to reach your first
100k, right? And the biggest lever to
get there is by increasing your active
income and building multiple ones. And
that's because if you think about your
income streams like a chair, right? If
you only rely on one, your 9-5 job, that
is a chair with one leg. That one leg is
holding up your entire financial life,
right? If you lose your job, you get
sick, or whatever, then that leg breaks.
And then there's nothing else holding up
your chair, which will impact the rest
of your financial goals downstream,
significantly delaying it. But if you
have additional streams of income,
right, whether that's from a side hustle
or or business or passive income from
your investments, right? You are
essentially adding more legs to this
chair. And the more you can add, the
stronger the chair becomes. And even if
you lose your job, right, one leg falls
off or breaks, you still have the other
legs that support it. Now, the single
most important reason that the 100K
changed my life is that that is when I
realized my money started working harder
than me. And it was also when I realized
that I was able to start thinking
bigger, right? Start thinking long-term.
And that's what I'm trying to help you
unlock, because I'm sure you have even
bigger financial dreams than 100K, but
you cannot get to 1 million, 2 million,
or more until you pass the 100K
milestone. And that leads me to
something that you've got to start
accepting. And it's like even if you
were trying your absolute hardest to get
100K, sometimes you might still feel
like you're not doing enough. And that
might be because you don't know all the
financial accounts you actually need and
how to use each one the right way to
build wealth. So, click here to learn
all seven accounts you need that helped
to me go from growing up broke to
reaching financial freedom before 30.