Einstein of Wall Street, Peter Tuckman.
I trade between a half a billion and a
billion dollars a day. Do you think the
average investor can beat the S&P 500?
>> So if you were to buy $250 into the S&P
500 every month from the age of 18, you
would have $1.4 million by the time you
were 60. But I believe if you follow the
rules, you could probably beat the S&P.
Did you meet Jordan Belfford?
>> Of course. He came down to the New York
Stock Exchange and he tried to recruit
brokers to They were all taken off the
floor by the FBI in handcuffs.
>> Have you seen greed ruin a lot of
people's lives?
>> Absolutely. I've seen them go broke over
it. This is not a get-richquick scheme.
It's not for people who just want to
find the easy way [music] out. That's
not the way to do this. I got CO March
15, 2020. Patient zero got the worst
strain that was out there. I was given 3
months to live. I lost a big part of my
left lung.
>> Peter, with the life and career that
you've built, how do you want to be
remembered? So, I think that um I always
get emotional about it. I want to be
remembered as somebody who
What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh.
And we have an incredible guest for you
all right now. My good [clears throat]
friend Peter Tuckman, otherwise known as
the Einstein of Wall Street. He is the
longest ever standing trader on the
floor of the New York Stock Exchange,
the most famous stock broker in the
world. [laughter] Peter, thank you for
being with us. I am honored to be with
the three of you.
>> It seems like every time I'm in New
York, I have to see you.
>> We have to be. We have to be together.
That's it.
>> You know what I mean?
>> Yes, I do.
>> I want to get I want to get right into
it. I want to get started.
>> Let's go.
>> You've been on the floor of the New York
Stock Exchange for now four decades.
>> Correct.
>> You've been through some of the most
insane financial booms, financial
crashes. I want you to take us back to
the most chaotic day on the floor of the
New York Stock Exchange. What happened?
>> Okay. So, um I started on March 28th,
1985. And it wasn't until recently they
put up a photograph uh uh at the stock
exchange that that that was in fact the
day that I was so I I was 25 years old.
I had just come back. I'd been living in
Africa and uh uh I got a summer my
parents said, "You know what? It's time
for you to like put on your big boy
pants and let's let's get down to
business." And I had a much older
brother who had been who was a pretty
big uh takeover guy on Wall Street back
in the day. And so they got me a summer
job. I come back from Africa on the 23rd
of March and I'd been there for a year
and a half. and I just sort of walked in
this job. It was a summer internship.
Turned out it was the day that Ronald
Reagan rang the opening bell. I was 25.
I was overwhelmed by the, you know, back
then it was open outcry. There was 7,000
people in that room that you've you've
been in a couple of times. And uh so I
was fortunate enough after the summer to
move my I loved it. I loved it. The
minute I walked on the floor, the chaos,
the the adrenaline that's kind of that
defi that's my that's my sweet spot,
right? Some people would go, "Oh my god,
I don't want I I need to, you know, have
a cigarette and a newspaper and a coffee
to get going. That's not me. I'm kind of
I'm thoroughbred out of the gate." And
so, um, I was able to move my way up.
And by the time the crash of 1987
happened, uh, everyone needs to know
that all the crashes that we've seen,
and I don't use that word lightly, we've
had a handful of them in history. Uh,
1929, there was probably one during
World War II. uh there was a crash of
87, there was the internet bubble, there
was um the financial financial crisis
0708 08 09 and then obviously COVID and
then last year's um uh the tariff
selloff that we had 20% and then I would
say we had a maybe a couple of mini
ones, you know, we just came out of one
around the um the war with Iran. So each
I would say each one of these crashes
you know didn't happen in a day although
the crash of 87 did and each one of the
crashes pullback you know their their
crashes and then their pullbacks
sell-offs consolidations. So um they the
components that made up each one of
these things which were major the only
thing that is similar about all of them
was that before they happened the market
was trading at record highs before it
happened. A crash did not happen when
the market had sort of been eroding. It
happened when it was at the high. You
can go really literally go back to
February 19th um of um of last year uh
in 2025 when Donald Trump decided to
start talking about tariffs was the high
of the market. February 12th of COVID
when the market started to un unravel
around COVID and and obviously that uh
where we really sold off you know
probably 14 15,000 points on the Dow.
February 12th, record high. The day
before the crash of 87, also a record
high. But each one of these crashes had
a different component that made it
happen. Right? Obviously, COVID was a
health global health crisis. 0708 was a
a predatory lending crisis. 87 was a
little bit different and I've still not
been able to get to understand what
really was going on. But, you know, it
was open outcry. It was paper things.
There was no technology at that time,
right? We were all paper, all screaming
and yelling like you've seen in the
movies. And I was a clerk at the time,
right? So I stood in front of a a
battery of telephones back in the day.
You would have these black regular
receiver phones and you'd have those
little buttons you would push. And I had
over a hundred telephone lines. And then
we had these machines called DOT
machines which were were sort of
spitting out this this was the most
technology there was at the time would
be spitting out these small retail
orders. Buy 500, sell 500. And uh we
came into work that day and there was
sort of a lot of
anxiety around the day before but uh it
was black Monday right percentage- wise
it was the biggest selloff I think we've
ever seen you know because back then
market was not you know we're now at Dow
50,000 so sell offs are different
percentages versus how they were I think
the Dow was you know in the 80s Dow was
at 3,000 I think the Dow was at
6,000 at the time and we sold off 600
108 points. It was so percentage- wise
it was the biggest. I think it had to do
a lot with there was some insurance
stuff going on, a little bit of in
incoming technology, but my memory of it
was as a clerk um
was sort of desperation. I mean, the
machine was spitting out orders like
like you couldn't even I would imagine
it's probably like in a restaurant if
you've seen like the show The Bear when
things get chaotic and their orders are
coming in from the you know, from the to
the kitchen and whatnot. orders were
just spitting out and I was just tearing
and ripping and tearing and ripping. I
had these what we call $2 brokers. They
were independent brokers who were just
lining up. I would hand them stacks of
orders and they were would just go out
into the crowd and basically by the time
the market started to just implode like
way to give you an understanding of how
much of a selloff it was, there was a
company back then. It was one of the
first computer companies. It was called
digital equipment uh deck and the stock
opened at 168. It closed at 40 just to
give you a sense of the value lost
obviously. Now you see stocks go up and
down you know millions and billions of
dollars in a day that back then if there
was a three or four point move in the
Dow it was a big day.
>> So to think that we sold off 608 points
was was quite devastating. So there was
definite mayhem. There was definite
chaos. You know, the bottom line is
though, you're in you're in the at at
you're in the heat of battle, right? And
so, as a clerk, being on the front lines
of it, it's not like I I already had a
sense that when something like this
happened, I could not crumble. I could
not waver. I could not like freak out,
right? You needed to, you know, it's
like, and I'm not comparing myself to a
soldier at war, but you know, you're in
the front lines and it's there's money
involved, right? I, you know, and if I
make an error, it's going to it's going
to come out of my my hide and it's going
to be costly. And so I had to navigate
the room and navigate the order flow
coming in and navigate the brokers I was
giving it to. And all I remember was
just a look of absolute horror on
everybody's face and and you know,
you know, when when and stress obviously
too. And so, um, but it's funny, you
know, some people can't, some people can
handle that, some people cannot. I kind
of rise to the occasion, you know, that
that was one of my first introductions
to where it's like, okay, this is sink
or swim, you know, that was where I I
really cut my teeth. And I would have to
say it was, you know, by the end of that
day, if you kind of think of that
trading places movie day, you know,
where at the end of it it's like
everybody throws their paper on the
floor and it's like, you know, now is
the time to, you know, uh, margin call,
Mr. Duke type of a moment. Um, hysteria,
chaos, mayhem. However, you know, I knew
that I had every dot, you know, uh,
dotted and every tea crossed. So that at
the end of the day I probably collapsed
to the floor but but I knew I had done
you know a good job. Peter, this is
maybe an interesting question, but I
feel like when you look at the course of
finance, in particular, New York City,
Wall Street, right? One of the most
competitive districts for finance,
right? It's the financial capital in the
entire world.
>> You know, in the times that I've met you
and anybody that I feel like has met
you, you have this I I want to call it
like a delusional optimism about you,
which I think is one of your
superpowers, you know, beyond just the
the tactical trading side of things. But
when you think about in finance all the
highs and lows that come, I mean, I I'll
put it blank. There's people that that
jump out of buildings because of because
of, you know,
>> 100% because of money.
>> 100%. How have you maintained such a
levelheadedness throughout your four
decades being in finance and still being
just a very optimistic and happy person?
Because I've interviewed, I've met a lot
of successful people, financial traders,
and you can tell that deep down they are
miserable. How have you kind of, you
know, maintained your happiness and your
peace of mind despite all that's gone on
and all that you've witnessed? So, you
know, I it's I love the question because
it's um I've never really thought of it
before that way. But, you know, um
I think the real answer to the question
is that I never up until recently I
never owned a share of stock in my life.
Now, people would go like, "What are you
what are you kidding me? That makes no
sense. You're a stock broker. Of course,
you you bought and sold stock for
yourself. You had a 401k or whatever."
Literally, you have to realize that as a
broke, I I got my first seat on the
stock exchange, uh, April 17th, 1988.
So, I'd been there about three and a
half years. It used to take most usually
between 13 and 15 years to get a seat. I
got lucky. One guy retired, one guy got
fired, one guy quit, and I just got
moved up. I was in the right place at
the right time. And I was told at that
time that as a broker, you have certain
regulations and uh you're not allowed to
own a stock within a 30-day period for
yourself and a customer, right? So,
because obviously there's a conflict of
interest. Like if I'm in a in a stock
for myself or the customer, I I know
that I have a million shares to buy for
for one of my customers and I go out and
buy the stock for myself. Well, that's
called front running. You know, that's
that's Jordan B. That's what Jordan
Balfford did. you know, when Jordan
Balfford came down to the floor and
recruited eight brokers uh to be his his
his sort of lackey, you know, he came up
to to all of us and he said, "I'll pay
you a million bucks if you when you get
a big order, right? If when you get a
big million share order, you buy the
first 5,000 for me and then when you're
done buying it, you sell the last 5,000
for me. That's called front running."
>> Did you meet Jordan Belfford?
>> Of course. He came down to the New York
Stock Exchange and he tried to recruit
brokers to um to do his bidding which
was that which was front run the stock
market because there were uh uh there
were house brokers, there were $2
brokers and then there were people who
were had good relationships. There were
people had really good relationships and
they stood in one stock. They had a
great feeling for the stock. You know
the stocks are funny that way. If you
trade a stock all the time, you've got a
feeling for it. So there were market
makers who ran the stock. IBM was a guy
named Brian Yunker. Amazing guy. He knew
there may have been be a hundred people
in his crowd. He knew what everybody
had. That was the that was his secret
sauce. And then there would be one guy
who stood in the crowd. One guy stood in
Philip Morris. He just knew how to trade
in Philip Morris. So if any of us had a
order in it, we'd give it to him to
protect us because he had all the orders
in his hands. Um
yeah. So Jordan Balfford came down to
the floor. He found the people who were
those people who stood in one stock and
he went up to them and said so you get
million share orders in a stock and they
said yes. He said okay what I want you
to do is I want you to buy when you get
an order to buy a million shares you
call me up and I want you to buy the
first 5,000 for me and then as you buy
the million shares by the time you're on
the end of it it's probably up a few two
or three dollars you sell my last 5,000.
That is classic called front running.
It's buying stock with the knowledge of
a buy order, right? It's as illegal as
you can get. And about eight brokers on
the floor took them up on the deal. He
offered a million dollars and uh they
were all taken off the floor by the FBI
in handcuffs with the uh you know with
the the the jackets on. Um and uh and
most of them spent more time in prison
than he did. But let's move away from
that. Um
you asked me how I was able to navigate
all of that. And so, honestly, up until
recently, my wife passed away a couple
of years ago and she left some money and
so I uh I figured out a way that I could
open up a uh retirement account and have
no control of it or no contact with it
and so that I wouldn't because I am I
built a trading strategy in 19 probably
26 27 years ago trading the S&P 500. So,
I'm actually in every one of the 347
stocks in the S&P every day. So
literally I can't I couldn't you know
and what other stocks I mean I could
probably pick a couple of outlier stocks
to invest in but le leg legally I
couldn't actually buy any of those names
and be in them for a customer.
>> And for context how much stock are you
trading a day? So I the best way to
describe it is it's hard to know how
many shares, but I know the dollar
amount because on my handheld computer
that routes the orders out, I get to see
what my credit limits are, which is how
much am I allowed to, you know, my
machine will has sort of guidelines like
I don't want it, you know, because you
your your we make mistakes. There are
errors. There are things like that. So,
we'll put a credit limit, which is the
the total amount of money that my
machine will let me accept so that
somebody doesn't send an erroneous, you
know, billion share order or something.
My machine will flag it and say, "Oh,
that's that must be a mistake, right?
You're over your limit." And so, I trade
usually between a half a billion and a
billion dollars a day in uh in in stock
and in in the S&P and in the S&P 500
with my son. My son is my partner. We're
the last father and son team on the
floor. When I got on down on Wall Street
in ' 85, there were 70 market makers and
almost all of them were family-owned
businesses,
>> right? There were fathers, uncles,
brothers, and they all there was the
Henderson brothers. There were the Cohen
brothers. There were Irish, Italians,
and Jews. Came down to Wall Street in
the early part of the century. They had
a little money. They came down. They
were give allocated one stock. They
traded it. They did well. They were
given another stock. And then they grew.
And that's kind of how it happened. But
without having skin in the game, without
me worrying about my own portfolio, like
if I'm in a crash and I know that my my
retirement fund just went from being
worth $100,000 to being 5,000, I would I
would be stressed over it no matter
what. Money's just that way. But if I my
sole purpose of being there in the day
is taking care of my customer,
>> right? Then that's where my focus is,
then I don't need to be stressed. I'm
just doing the right thing by him. I'm
not in a financial adviser. I'm the
executor guy, right? I'm the guy who's
doing it. So, all I need to do is be
hyperfocused on doing the right thing
for him. And so, at the end of the day,
whether the market goes up or down, I
don't care as long as I've done the
right thing for my for my customer. So,
I'm not my P&L, my profit and loss is
not connected to whether the market's
crashing or rallying. And so, I think
that's a big part of why I've been able
to navigate it. And also, you know, for
me, I one of my secret superpowers is
that I I I I uh rally into adversity,
right? I've had I've had wonderful times
in my life and I've had really hard
times. And so there's this level of
resilience in me, right? And there's,
you know, when I see uh a situation that
needs like triage or, you know, I run to
it. I don't run away from it, you know?
And so
>> you're trading 500 million to a billion
dollars every single day. Who are your
customers? Is it family offices? Is it
the everyday retail investor? Like who
who works with you primarily?
>> Okay. I've had the same three customers
for almost 30 years, right? And uh my
it's a hedge fund. Okay. It was it's a
bunch of young guys who um actually were
um uh card counters. They all went to to
school together. One of them is the
number one uh uh Magic card player in
the world and they uh they started a
small hedge fund together and they were
searching out this crazy guy who used to
walk around the floor asking for what
the imbalances are for the close and
that was me, right? And I used to do it
every day and I'd scream into a phone
and and they found me and we developed a
relationship and we've been trading
together. So, it's a hedge fund. It's a
uh highwealth guy from Texas and it's a
trading desk out of Texas as well. And
then we've picked up a couple of small
people. So, it's not retail customers.
It's not real individuals. It's
basically uh small hedge funds and and
and and and prop shops.
>> Do you think the average investor can
beat the S&P 500?
>> So, good question. Um so we are people
need to understand that something really
radically changed around COVID right
before COVID you needed to be an
accredited investor to trade the stock
market. What did that mean? That your
parents, your grandparents open an
account at Meil Lynch, Smith Barney, any
of those old firms, they had to when
they gave them $5,000 of their
retirement fund or something to, you
know, advise and run their money for
them if they had money. Um, they had to
prove that if they lost 100% of it, it
would have no effect on their standard
of living for five years. That was that
sort of because, you know, they didn't
want to take on the responsibility. They
one of the main things about Wall
Street, you don't you don't quit a job
to start trading to feed your family.
That's not a great thing, right? You
don't take your last $5,000 and start
trading hoping you're going to get
yourself out of a jam. Usually, it's
it's, you know, it's it's disposable
income that one puts into the market. So
when COVID came along, uh, Weeble, Robin
Hood, uh, it suddenly went from an
exclusive, not inclusive place, Wall
Street, where most people were not, uh,
had access to it to basically everybody
where, you know, with with Robin Hood
and Weeble and a couple of the other
firms, TDMR trade, anybody with an
iPhone and 100 bucks could suddenly
trade the stock market. The
accessibility was wide open. Everybody
was invited to the party. Okay? And uh
there was this 50 million plus was a
number that people threw out of all the
new retail pe people who came and think
about it. We were COVID sheltered in
place, locked at home. Everybody got a
little stimulus check. Uh Reddit popped
up. Wall Street Bets came around. The
meme phenomenon happened. All eyes were
on Roaring Kitty. All eyes were on Wall
Street, right? It suddenly from out of
nowhere, the whole world was looking at
Wall Street, right? stocks like GameStop
going from two to 483, back to three,
Rivian, all that. You know, everybody
wanted a piece of it and they suddenly
had access to it, right? And so they
created this new sort of a whole new
generation of young traders that came
along. I think 80 90% of the people who
came around that time blew themselves up
hundred times over, you know. They said
stocks are going to the moon, you know,
and I always said to them, nobody got
broke taking a profit. sell that stock,
you know, and sure enough, it didn't go
to the moon. It went from 483 right back
down to two. But what's come out of that
is a new generation of incredible young
traders, right? I work for a firm called
Apex Trader Funding. They are a
simulated trading prop shop. They give
accessibility and funding to people who
couldn't have access to the market to
trade. I've seen now a new generation of
young people 18 to 25 day trading the
stock market who have become so
successful. You have to realize that the
people who are day trading the market
now are coming out of the uh the video
game generation. They are really good at
sitting down in front of a you know I've
never played a video game in my life but
I don't know Grand Theft Auto or
whatever that you know crazy video
stuff. They know how to work a keyboard
right? So when they were suddenly given
an opportunity that they could do that
and make money doing it, they the the
transition from I guess video games to
to day trading stocks was a very easy
one. And I've seen this generation and
it's become so successful bringing in
hundreds of thousands of dollars a
month. I mean, I have some young traders
that I've seen who I've mentored who are
who went from, you know, inspired by me
at saw my first video when they were 12,
13 years old who are making $20 million
a year now in their 20s and have these
amazing communities around them. So, I
truly believe they've become there's
this new generation of retail that's
become smart money. They become great
traders. you know, surely a majority of
them, you know, are making up a lot of
stuff and blowing their accounts up and
everything, but I believe if you're a
responsible, disciplined, consistent day
trader and you follow the rules, you
could probably beat the S&P.
>> Peter, I think that in our interview you
said this, but I saw in a clip with you
and I show speed where you told him you
need to buy stocks and not products and
you buy stocks, not stuff. And if you
buy stuff, you need to go buy the stock
associated with that stuff. For example,
if you have an iPhone, you should go buy
Apple stock. If you buy Nikes, go buy
Nike stock. Uh, break that down and
maybe any other tips that you have for
for, you know, just young people who are
wanting to get into investing. You said
Robin Hood, they've Robin Hood, Weeble,
like all these new apps have have opened
up for the retail investor to be able
you could take a $100 and start, you
know, trading. And so like for you like
what what would your message be to that
young retail investor uh who's just
getting started today?
>> Gotcha. So I uh thanks for that question
as well. So the I show speed thing there
you know there was a gentleman who was a
market maker on the floor who who's
that's his line. Invest in stocks not
stuff and I have never taken credit for
it. I just I have a bigger platform than
he and so I I I love getting across that
message. The concept behind it is this.
We have we are now you guys. And I I I
consider myself a young generation
person are the greatest consumer
generation of all time. We we are
incredible loyal brand customers, right?
We you know I always when 13 14 year
olds ask me like what should I invest
in? I say walk down the corridor of your
high school and ask everybody check out
what sneakers they're wearing, what
phones they use, what computers they're
on, what they do in their spare time,
what social media they're on, and then
go out and buy one share of every one of
those things because it you're going to
get probably Nike. Nike has not always
performed as well as some people would
like, but it's still a great company.
You'd probably get Apple, Nike,
Snapchat, Instagram, um, you know, uh,
maybe a little bit of betting, you know,
uh, uh, stuff like that. You know, we
are loyal to our brands. I mean, I know
I am, you know, I have the same kind of
phone all the time, the same kind of
clothes all the time. I do things like
that. And so the the idea behind it, the
mindset behind it is if I am so loyal to
a brand that I love it. Think about
this. If every time the which is how I
was able to get across to to I show
speed and he he was spectacular. Um uh I
said, "So every time the new iPhone
comes out, do you get it?" And he said,
"Absolutely." And I said, "You mean even
if the your iPhone 16 is not broken, you
get the 17?" He goes, "Yeah, of course."
I mean, obviously he's a wealthy kid,
but you know, but everybody does that.
you know, they want the next iteration
because it's got a better camera, a
better this or better this. And I said,
"Well, just imagine if you go back a
little bit and instead of, you know,
jumping to the next iPhone, you know,
you went out and bought five shares of
Apple stock with that $1,000, right?
It's $250 a share, you you instead of
spending $1,000 on a new phone, you wait
you wait some time and buy Apple shares,
right? It's a mind. It's just
understanding that you love the product.
it's being made by that company. So, if
you're thinking about investing and
growing some kind of a portfolio, then
you you go out and buy the stock because
we should be buying stocks that we are
familiar with, that we like the company,
and that are in in good condition. And
normally that that Apple's obviously I'm
not no recommendation. I'm not an
adviser, but it's a great company, one
of the greatest companies of all time.
And so the idea is that, you know, if
from
iPhone one to now we're at 17. If I, you
know, I surely don't want to sit around
with an iPhone one still, but think
about it. If I bought five shares of
Apple every time a new phone came out
and kept my phone, right, uh, I would
now have probably, I don't know, you
know, 20 25 shares of Apple, which is
probably worth tens of thousands of
dollars as opposed to a drawer full of
old broken iPhones. So, it's the it's
the mindset that that instead of going
out and just buying something, we love
to buy things. Think about Instagram. I
do it. I'm I'm a terrible culprit of
this. I see something I love, you know,
scrolling at 2 o'clock in the morning. I
see something, not only do I buy it, but
I pay an extra $25 to have it delivered
to me yesterday. And so, think about all
that money. There's a number out there
and I think I told it to you in your
first interview with me that if at the
age of the S&P 500 is a basket of 500
stocks that kind of give you a wonderful
footprint of tech, consumer staples, a
little bit of everything. You know,
Shake Shack, you love burgers, Madison
Square Garden, you love basketball, go
nicks. Um, uh, all you know, Apple,
Amazon, stuff like that. Um,
[clears throat]
and so if you were to buy SPE, put $250
into the S&P 500 every month from the
age of 18 to the age of 60, you would
have $1.4 million by the time you were
60. Now, I always say this 60s, it's not
the sexiest part of that scenario, but
1.4 million is. People always think that
they need to have figured everything
out. You talk about this a lot, too.
People don't you don't need to have
everything figured out to do something,
right? To start something, right? You're
just waiting around wasting time. Gary
Vanichek also says that also. Just get
busy. Do it, right? It's that great the
Nike line. Just do it, right? And so the
same thing with with investing in the
market. If most people wouldn't even
think that was possible, that think
about all the $250 that we waste on too
many Starbucks or whatever people waste
money on. And I'm I do it too. If you
just put that into the stock market,
never thought about it into the S&P.
Think about all the things that have
happened over the last five years with
all the wars and and oil and and the
tariffs and this since co the S&P is up
over 145%.
So to think that any kid now who's now
and I I have followers who are 9 10 11
years old ever since the I Shallow Speed
interview. If they put $5 a week or $10
a month or whatever, you don't have to
have 250. But if you just once again,
it's a mindset of investing in your
future. And you know, we all have
closets full of stuff that we bought.
The minute we bought them, they went
down in value. We used them once. We
really don't need them, right? That urge
to have something literally la urge by
definition lasts about 20 minutes. So
every time you want to go out and buy
something, walk around the block, have a
piece of chocolate, and then go put that
money into the stock market, right?
You'll probably end up being a wealthy
guy. So that's that was the whole point
of that concept.
>> But I want to go a step further on this
because in our interview, you also
talked about how like I love the
philosophy of invest in stocks and not
stuff, but it's also like the little
parts of these devices, for example,
with Apple, like the chips that make up
Apple. And so you're [clears throat]
very diligent about looking into all of
those little components right now. Like
we talked about Nvidia in our last
interview, but you also break down that
side of things as well.
>> 100%. So we think of products uh as as
the end result of of of the
manufacturing of them, but we don't
think of when you're sort of like Jim
Kramer is really wonderful about this as
well. You know, we always want to find
the next big hit, the next trillion
dollar company. Jensen Wang, Nvidia's
CEO the other day said that Marll is
going to be the next trillion dollar
company. It was trading at $264. It went
up $75. Was up 36% on that. So, um,
Marll, I don't know that much about the
company, but I know it makes some of the
internal workings of of of AI, right?
So, think about it. So, we buy we buy uh
Nike because we like their sneakers,
right? We buy the Apple phone because
we're just it's the best phone out
there. We all we all think because it's
the most popular one. And but people
want to know how do I actually a lot of
those stocks have already made their
move right and so if you think about it
Dan I is a number one tech analyst in
the world who's one of my mentors al
also has taught me a lot about this that
there's what's called the secondary and
tertiary trade around AI around a lot of
different things around the iPhone the
things that go into an iPhone the things
that are the components right those are
all individual companies as well. Apple
doesn't own all the things that go in
there, right? Like rare earth minerals
that go into all these products or or
the chips that go into uh AI and what
makes G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G
G G G GPUs work and all that kind of
stuff, those companies are all
independently publicly traded companies
as well. So if people actually do that
kind of due diligence and investigation
and want to sort of get in on the ground
floor of Right. So there's um Jensen
Wang also said in December that the next
thing that's going to either be the
obstacle or the catalyst to make AI be
even bigger than it is is going to be
energy. Right? So they never thought it
was going to be I mean if you go back
four or five years Dan Ives was touting
Nvidia back when it was $30. Everyone
said oh AI it's never going to be
anything. Okay it turned out to be
something. the building of data centers
now is is is as a result of the fact
that AI is so huge they need GPUs and in
order to get GPUs which is the the the
component that makes AI happen you need
data centers to make more GPUs are a
limited thing it's like Bitcoin right
there were Bitcoin miners right you know
who are making Bitcoin in their home in
the basement right there are now GPU
entrepreneurs who are setting up that
and I'm working with a company called
Argentum, right? It's a guy named Andrew
Sopco. He had a company called Batch,
which was a logistics uh um uh company
during COVID. He started Argentum, which
is a marketplace for for GPUs. So, every
product that we use and that we own and
that that
we're going to be using, right, has
every has all the components in it,
right, that are being made by a company.
And so it's it smart investing my I
believe is to go out and find out what
those companies are that are making the
inner the inards right like our you know
like our internal organs of those
products that are going to be the next
thing and sometimes you can get in on
the ground floor of that because they're
they may not be trading at $180 a share
but they they may be you know on the way
up. I'll give you one example. Uh, a
company called Hilleion. And I'm not
recommending anything. I'm not if I
disclaimer across the board.
>> Are you Hilon?
>> Hilleon.
>> That's Thomas Healey.
>> Yes. Thomas Healey is a good friend of
mine. He's been on the show.
>> Oh, he he's wonderful. Thomas Healey,
youngest CEO of a publicly traded
company in history. At 23, he invented
the 18-wheel electric truck back when
electric vehicles were the thing, right?
He came down to the stock exchange. He
and I were in a big commercial together
that the stock exchange did.
Extraordinary young man and EVs were
hot. He was hot. Stock came out at 10.
It went to 60. It was a beautiful thing.
And then they went out of out of favor,
right? And the stock went straight down
to two. And he and he had a couple of
choices. He could just go to bail and
just realize like, well, you know, this
I had my run and whatever or pivot.
He's also the youngest man to ever take
a company and completely change their
trajectory. And what he ended up doing
was he realized that he listened to
Jensen Wang who said that the energy
part of the AI trade is going to be the
next thing that'll either be the
obstacle or the catalyst and generators
things of be able to create the energy
grid that will run the data centers is
key. And so he went out and I believe
bought from General Electric a 3D
printable generator that has the
capacity to
produce energy for data centers. Now
that stock has gone in the last I I hope
you listen to him when you when you
interviewed him because that stock has
gone from two to eight today, right?
Over the last three or four months. Um
and so think about how amazing that is.
He pivoted. He saw an opportunity. He
saw a problem, he looked for a solution
and found it and he pivoted.
>> He's been getting some big contracts
with like the Navy and stuff like that
>> and everybody that's so that's a perfect
example of where you know how that that
pivot works. So for the average like
retail investor as well
there's I I know that they pretty much
find out a lot about what's going on
within the market via news or social
media
>> or me
>> or you [laughter] I and I was actually
going to ask is like what is the best
way for someone to stay in touch with
like okay how can I get in on markets
and stocks before they actually are too
big for there's not that much of a a
change or it's not really worth
investing in anymore
>> right so uh first of all I I don't think
it's ever too late to invest in the
market overall, but obviously individual
stocks have had great runs and and you
know some at some point they may be
overbought you know or they may be a
little bit too expensive. So there is so
much information is is you know uh we
know that data is gold and information
is really important. Um you know to be
perfectly honest Instagram is actually
you know if you take it with a grain of
salt there's a lot of information out
there. go out and pick. I mean, I could
give you a list of about five people who
are really smart who are on social media
who give really great information. Just
beware because there are a lot of bad
guys out there, right? There are guys
who have created large social media
communities. Once again, going back to
the pump and we we talked about front
running. Well, there's pump and dump was
one of Mr. Balfurt's other things that
he did. He used to go out and buy
millions of shares of penny stocks. And
then he'd have all those people in the
movie, you know, cold calling, you know,
old men in Florida and going, "Oh, we've
got the next big thing. Go out and buy
it." You know, and they already owned
millions of shares of it. And then when
they talked these people into buying it,
they were selling it. It's called pump
and dump. So there are a lot of bad guys
out there. There was a gentleman who was
had a big Twitter following, he did that
as well. So there are good people on
social media. Uh, obviously the
information is out there. You could
listen to Jim Kramer for information and
educational purposes. you can listen to
me, right? Uh I don't advise, but I I
give you an explanation of forensically
why the market does what it does. Um
there are people like Dyn there's lots
of really good podcasts. There's a lots
of really good information out there on
on there's a newsletter. There's a
gentleman I I don't know if you've
interviewed him, but you probably
should. He liquidity, you know him on
from Twitter. Do you remember when COVID
came out? He was the guy who basically
invented the meme. Um, in the beginning
he was the first guy to put a meme on on
Twitter and Elon Musk uh uh liked it and
reposted it and that was the beginning
of his so he he he's known as liquidity.
He was anonymous for many many years.
His name is Henry Medina. Wonderful guy
and um uh he uh ju just you know he has
a newsletter called Execum. It's my
go-to in the morning. Literally in five
minutes I can find out everything that's
going on in the market. things about
mergers, acquisitions, you know, the
next big thing. Uh there's a gentleman
named Wall Street Trapper. Great story.
Uh when I was uh dying of COVID, right?
I got COVID March 15, 2020. And uh
patient zero. And I got the worst strain
that was out there. And uh I hadund uh
uh 103.7 for almost uh eight weeks. I
was given three months to live and my
cervical spine collapsed. A and I was
short of just dying. I lost a big part
of my left lung and I was sitting at
home, you know, back then they didn't
know what was going on. So I was suck,
you know, secured plastic sealed
apartment and all this and I was
basically dying and I was alone in the
apartment and all I had was my iPhone
and uh I was sort of reaching out to
just trying to you know keep myself
going and a couple of people popped up
on my feed on my feed. One of them was
David Meltzer, another person you should
meet. Uh you probably have uh my mentor,
one of my mentors. He's the gentleman
they made the Jerry Maguire movie about,
right? He was somebody who made hundreds
of millions of dollars in sports
management, lost it all, went bankrupt,
and then built himself back up, had a
spiritual awakening, and now embarked on
a mission to bring joy to a billion
people in the world, right? Man with
great advice with and a lot about things
that you talk about as well. But Wall
Street Chopper was a gentleman uh uh an
African-American who had been in prison
for uh sent to prison for 10 years for I
think it was attempted murder or
something. He had been in a gang in New
Orleans where he grew up. And while in
prison in solitary, he was uh he met a
guy who was a Wall Street Ponzi guy,
right? And they uh they sort of started
chatting and the the the white Ponzi guy
said to him, he goes, "You guys got it
all wrong. you know, you're you're on
the streets, you know, and you all end
up in jail, you should um no disrespect,
you should uh you should be doing Wall
Street. Wall Street's just the the the
the the not less dangerous version, you
know, of what that hustle that you guys
are doing. They spent the next 10 years
together and he taught him everything he
knew about Wall Street. And Wall Street
Chopper came out of jail. He's now worth
tens of millions of dollars. He has a
community in the millions giving I I
spent probably an hour last night
listening to him about how you get
exposure to SpaceX and what are the next
stocks you know within the water space
because Mr. Trump just said that water
is going to be the next big thing. And
Warren Buffett also said it. There are
he's had an trap became a good friend of
m there are people out there who have
come from nothing who have learned
everything about Wall Street who are
sincere and giving out amazing
information. I think uh one of the
interesting things is that you know for
a lot of people who you know trade
stocks and things like that if they're
just following the news then of course
it's just like oh well this bad thing
happened to a company so we're going to
sell and this good thing happened to a
company so we're going to buy and
there's always the you know sell high
buy low right but for you what what do
you feel is like that extra edge I I
feel like I'm asking the magician you
know the the secret tricks here
>> no you're not actually
>> but like what do you feel like gives you
know maybe a young trader or so or just
anybody that's in the market like the
extra edge to maybe they could be like
one or two steps ahead of like all the
big news craze that's out of course
getting close to the source what we've
kind of talked about but is there
anything like in the in the trends of
what's what's going on like what what
for you is like the things that people
should really be looking for of when
they know like hey when is it time to
get out of a position or when is it time
to like I really need to go all in
>> right so obviously there's news and
obviously there is um people who are
really doing their homework about this.
There's a lot of really smart people out
there who are, you know, the stock
market has become, you know, um uh I I
mean
my my surge on social media has taken me
to a whole another level. You know what
it was like when you had 200,000
followers and you went to the millions.
It's a completely different world. My
life has changed forever, right? And so
I see that, you know, I was in Sardinia
this weekend and I posted one little
thing that I was in somewhere in
Sardinia and uh I walked out of my hotel
and there was a apparently there's a
school in uh Switzerland, which is like
the school where billionaires send their
children. And it turns out they was five
kids who were on a trip uh who were in
that school and who were big fans of me.
And they may had talked the mom into
staking out my hotel and they waited for
five hours for me to walk out of the
hotel and I walked out and they were
just like, "Oh my god." You know, this
there are people from eight, my
demographic is from 8 to 80. It's
amazing how incredibly excited the world
is about the stock market. All eyes. It
is the number one thing. I can at this
point barely walk down the street
without, you know, w without just being
in on I get on the subway within five
minutes it's like the whole half of the
car is like talking to me and wants to
know the inside line and the you know
and all that. Um Wall Street is the
hottest topic of of the world right now
and I happen just to be at the forefront
of that and that's for me it's
wonderful. I love every minute of the
fame. I love the platform. for my you
know for for people like us the more
people the more eyeballs that are on us
we we have a mission and that's that's
incredibly exciting um to get the edge
it takes a lot of work you need to know
who you're listening to get in touch
with the right people and I'm happy to
tell people who I think the right people
are not I'm not you know I know I look
like Einstein I'm not that smart uh but
I got the look um you know there there
you can do your own homework as well
because you know those who are smart are
doing the homework, right? Um, and so
sometimes it's just a matter of
listening to a story that seems exciting
like the space story, right? Like
SpaceX, right? Uh, and then listening to
a couple little things and then going
out and doing your homework. The
information is out there. That's kind of
the amazing thing about first of all
about AI and secondly about the internet
and just the amazing scope of of
information that's going around. All of
this stuff is publicly public
information. Like you can they just file
SpaceX just filed their for their IPO
the the the filing that they put out to
go public is public. You can read
everything about what's in the company,
how much money they make, right? I mean,
you know, that's information that's
really key. And you may even find
something inside, like you asked me
about the components about something
little inside of it that may be a
little, you know, the the outlier,
right? Don't always go with the big
story because sometimes that's already
the trains that train left the station.
Look for the little secret thing inside
that. Uh like what's the littlest
component inside of an iPhone is
actually it's a rare earth mineral and
so you know and then well who controls
rare earth minerals in the world? Well,
China does. But they actually just made
kind of a deal with Mr. Trump around it.
I mean those kind of you you try to
connect the dots. It's this is not a
get-rich quick scheme. It's not for
people who just want to, you know, uh,
uh, uh, try and find out, you know, find
the easy way out. That that's not the
way to do this because the information
highway is moving so fast that that
train has left the station. The minute
you hear about it, it's like we talk
about buy the rumor, sell the news. You
know, the minute you've seen a stock,
you know, go from two to 483.
You know, I I I was tracking those meme
stocks when they when they came out and
uh majority of the purchases by the
retail community back then was at the
highest price of all. That was where you
saw the volume and all those people had
some idea that it was going higher,
right? And most of those people were
left holding the bag. There are we we
talk to traders all the time who are
still who still own GameStop at $483.
That was the high or or who own Rivian
at $92, right? because that was one of
the meme stocks or Blackberry or all
those things because you know they just
they they it's FOMO fear of missing out
hype. This is one of my lines but it's
it's a good line is FOMO, hype and hope
are not sustainable trading strategies,
right? You want you just do the homework
or not. And if you if you don't want to,
but you want to participate in in the
game, that's why I always say the S&P
500 is sort of, and this is not a
recommendation, it's a great place to go
because you can put your money in there
at 18, 250 bucks, and at 60, you're
going to have a $1.4 million. Peter, you
said earlier in this podcast episode
that nobody ever went broke taking a
profit, and you were just talking about
then where it's like people, they wanted
more and more and more. They wanted to
keep going. Have you seen greed Have you
seen greed ruin a lot of people's lives?
>> Absolutely. I've seen them go broke over
it. Right now, if you go back to the
first Wall Street movie, Michael
Douglas, Charlie Sheen, it was the story
of Ivan Boowki, uh, who was somebody I
was offered a job with the day before he
was indicted. He believed that he was
hearing voices. He told everyone he was
hearing voices about potential
takeovers. And uh he he worked in the
firm right next to the the company I
worked when I got down to Wall Street.
Uh it was called Somala was his company.
And he claimed that he was in the middle
of the night he would hear about
takeovers and his mind and then we'd get
to work in the morning and he would be
buying millions of shares of of uh
Beatrice or Tropicana or RJR Nabiscoco
and then four days later they would
announce a merger and everyone would go,
"How did he know?" Right? Well, it
turned out he had some guy up at Goldman
Sachs who um who was giving him inside
information. Uh but there's a famous
line from that movie when he says he's
giving a speech, Ivan Boowki, it was
Michael Douglas and he said greed is for
lack of a better word greed is good.
Right? So you can look at greed two
different ways. If you think of greed
like um I bought the stock at two and uh
everyone's telling me don't you know and
it's trading at six uh everyone's saying
don't sell it it's going to 50 but I
sell it I've made a profit I'm walking
away with four points on that thing
that's being a little bit greedy right
um uh
that's where greed is good but if I look
at greed as I bought it at two and it
went to six and I uh I I want to get
every penny out of it because I'm greedy
and it goes to 50 and I never sell it
because I want I my greed makes me want
to get another dollar out of it and the
next thing you know uh it's trading at
two. Well, that's where greed didn't
work. I'll give you a perfect example.
Um uh it was the internet bubble. I was
on the floor trading.
Yahoo came out. It was one of the first
uh internet companies. It came out at
three. it I think it went to 600 and
everybody on the floor was in it.
Everybody bought it at three and and
boom boom boom and then one day we came
into work and it was trading back at
three and the day before everybody was
walking around. They had all were their
port their P&L looked beautiful. They
were all talking about going I'm going
to Disney World. All my money, my kids
are going to private school. It's all
good. And the next day everybody walked
in and they were broke because the stock
had dropped to three. And there was one
guy sitting in the corner on the floor.
And I remember that I have a
photographic memory. I remember it well.
His name was Frank Murphy. He was
sitting in the corner. He was a funny
little man. And he had this big smile on
his face. And I walked up to him and I
and everyone on the floor was miserable.
They had the day before they had their
their their portfolio looked like a
million dollars and now it was
worthless. And I said, "Frankie, how
come you look so happy everybody's so
miserable?" He goes, "Pete, I've been
here a long time." He goes, "I bought
Yahoo at at three. I sold it at eight. I
bought it at 50. I sold it at 60. I
bought it at 100. I sold it at 180. By
the time the stock went to 400 and back
to three, I had made $20 million and I
didn't care what happened to the stock.
So that was where that line of nobody
got broke taking a profit. It's a matter
and also where greed plays into it that
you know that people need to understand
that this is it's only gambling if you
don't know what you're doing. And you
know it's like let it ride, let it ride.
Well, you can let it ride to a point
where, you know, I mean, I would rather
be, you know, should a would a coulda is
also not a trading strategy. If I buy
something at five and it goes to 10,
discipline and consistency are the key
to a successful trader. Somebody who
hits singles and doubles is going to be
a successful day trader. And that's what
we we I have a company with my partner
David Green. It's called Wall Street
Global Trading Academy. That's what we
teach. You get in and you get out. You
buy a 100 shares at 50, right? You put
in a stop order. Stop order risk
management is also another key to for a
successful trader, right? So the stock
market gives you this amazing ability
that I can if I buy a 100 shares of a
stock at 50, I can put an order what's
called a stop order at 49 and a half
that if it goes against me for whatever,
you know, I may have bought it for all
the right reasons, Mr. Trump puts out a
tweet that we're going to war and the
market, you know, goes down and I will
lose whatever whatever I'll lose that 50
cents, but I'm not going to lose $20.
>> And the next thing we teach is that if
it goes to 50 and a half, immediately
take a profit, a partial profit, right?
Move my stop order to break even. I just
made a little money and I can't lose
money. And so that kind of a mentality
around trading, hitting singles and D.
If you go for the home run, you may hit
a couple of home runs, but you're you're
you're for the most part, you're
probably gonna lose money.
>> Earlier, you'd mentioned uh Elon Musk,
and he's about to have one of the
biggest IPOs in history, the SpaceX,
>> the biggest
>> the biggest IPO in history,
buy or bust.
>> So, it's hard for me to recommend it or
at all. I think I'd rather give you a uh
an explanation of what's happening in
it. um because it's uh I don't know and
that's a legitimate answer. uh you know
it could go it's they say it's going to
open uh it's going to be issued right so
uh when a when a company decides to go
to uh to initial public offering they
they pick a price where they say the
value of the stock and $135 is
apparently the price it's coming out at
the valuation is 1.75 trillion now that
is a function of the fact that he's Elon
Musk and he wants it to be big and he's
thrown all of his assets into the pot,
right? He's even considered throwing
Tesla into the pot. Uh surely people who
suffered from his Twitter debacle are
now going to get a payoff because
they're in they're if they held their
stock, they're going to make money
because it's part of the SpaceX thing.
So they're the the revenues are 20
billion. Okay. The um they just got a $4
billion contract I think day before
yesterday with the US government for
doing satellites for all of the army,
right? And so it's actually going to the
valuation is almost a hundred times
earnings. Now if you go back uh I think
Meta uh Facebook uh is trading at 11
times earnings. Nvidia is trading at 18
times earnings, right? A 100 times
earnings to come out is it's a a little
bit frothy at best like a really good
cappuccino at Starbucks. It's way out
there. Um, but something is to be said
for the irrational enthusiasm around a a
sector. You know,
Elon Musk only had one competitor, which
was Jeff Bezos's Blue Oyster Culture,
whatever that stuff was called, and they
just blew up, right? You saw that last
week. The other the only other big space
company uh just got decimated. Not only
did it blow up the rocket, but it blew
up the landing pad. And it takes a year
and chains to do that. So if there if
there was any competition there's no
longer competition. So you have to look
at all of these components right uh you
know is it and also Mr. Musk has
rewritten the rules of IPO um uh what do
you call it unlock an unlock what does
that mean so people are the insiders
think about this that um the guy who
painted the mural on Facebook's office
uh who didn't they didn't have enough
money to pay him and he got some stock
uh early on in the beginning of of of
Facebook is worth now $260 million right
because he got shares on the inside,
right? There are people who bought
SpaceX stock five years ago when
everyone thought it was crazy for
pennies on the dollar and now they're
going to become instant millionaires. So
the people who get insider stock, people
who are employees or who are early
investors, right? They are there
restrictions on when they can sell. You
cannot just uh be an insider and get
early allocation stock and the day of
the IPOs you dump your stock. That's
illegal. You can't do that, right?
There's what's called the lockdown. They
there are strict rules that the stock
exchange has given you that there's a
six-month lockdown, a nine-month
lockdown of when certain people
depending on when you got your stock and
what kind of stock is it, is it
preferred stock, limited stock, all that
kind of stuff. Um Elon Musk has
apparently rewritten the rules on the
lockdown that you're that most people
are not going to be able to sell their
stock um until he's he's ready to let
them sell the stock. then there's some
stock that he would that people got that
he's not going to let them sell it
unless it's trading at a 30% premium to
the IPO. So, you know, normally in an
IPO, uh there's excitement around it. It
opens, it it rallies. I mean, there
there have been all kinds of stories
around IPOs. If you look at Figma or
Bullish, some of the biggest ones we've
had this year, priced at 30, opened at
90, went to 120. You know, there was
some Chinese stock that went from 14 to
2,700 in one day. I mean there's a wild
story and then right back down. Um you
know any this stock could go anywhere.
There's so many little components and
stories within the uh Elon Musk story
and in the SpaceX story. Uh it's almost
impossible to get uh now uh exposure to
SpaceX. Somehow there are ways of doing
it with these special vehicles that
they've made. You know um uh I it's
going to come out at 135. I would bet it
opens at a thousand. Uh just because
there's such a limited supply.
So many people want it. It is the flavor
of the freaking moment. Everybody wants
something. You know, there are people,
if you listen on on on Instagram, people
who say, "Wait for wait for the unlock.
Wait for some of that stock to come in
for sale. Let we don't know what's going
to happen. It's trading at such a high
level of excitement that uh maybe let it
open. Watch it. This is my best
recommendation without recommending
anything is to let it open, watch what
happens, see it. I would rather like
that Frank Murphy story. If it's going
to go higher, I would rather wait and
you know, you don't want to catch a
falling knife. That's how we always talk
about you want to buy into the momentum.
So, I would wait. Let it open. Let it
Let's see what happens because this is
unprecedented. What's happening is unpre
the valuation's unprecedented. The
numbers are unprecedented. Let's see
what happens. It could go it could go to
2,000 and it could go to 50, right?
That's the that's the problem. So, I
would rather wait and see and then like
reanalyze it. If it's going to go
higher, I will have a chance to do it. I
may not pay bottom dollar, but I will be
able to buy it and it'll probably go
higher, but I just need to know that I
made the right decision.
>> I love it. So, Peter, oh, you know, been
for decades been the longest standing
trader on the New York Stock Exchange
for you h like how is it becoming a
broker today? And compared to like when
you first started, like, you know,
everybody sees the movies Wolf Wall
Street, Wall Street, you know, Margin
Call, like the craze of what it is,
especially in like the 80s and 90s of
what the the floor looks like, right?
What does it look like today? And what
does that process look like if if you
wanted to become a broker? Like what
does it look like? Okay. The New York
Stock Exchange look like today.
>> In 1903, they issued about 1300 seats on
the stock exchange which gave you the
right to trade stock. Kind of like a
taxi medallion. They never added them to
it. They never subtracted. That was the
number. And they they were a trading
vehicle for many many years based on how
the market was doing. Before the crash
of 29, I think it was trading at
$30,000. Then it went down to 8,000 and
then it rallied up. When I got to Wall
Street, it was trading at around
$183,000 for a seat. You could not buy a
seat with anything but your own money. I
I could not borrow money from my parents
to buy a seat. I I lease I've leased a
seat. I've never owned a seat. I never
had enough money. I had almost had my
one in my grasp a couple times and
people knew that it was every penny I
had. I had one at 187,000, someone
outbid me. I had one at 1.2 million and
someone outbid me. Um, so I've never
owned one. Um, back in the day you had
to be sponsored by a brokerage firm. Uh,
it was a huge crazy honor to get a seat
on the stock exchange. When I did it, my
parents came. I signed a book that was
signed by by Carnegie by JP Morgan. Like
the real JPont Morgan signed the book
that I signed. It was like Santa Claus's
book, right? It was this huge thing.
They still are at the stock exchange. If
you guys want to come down, I'll
introduce you to Pete Dash. He'll he'll
show you the book. When my son signed
the book, it's a funny story. Um, George
Lopez, the comedian, uh, had a show on
A&E called very superstitious and he
would he traveled around the country
interviewing people who are very super
I'm very superstitious. He found out
about it and he came and we did an
episode of the show. It's it's called it
was it's the episode's called Money.
It's on A&E. It's a fun episode. He
spent the day with me at the stock
exchange. It was the day my son was
signing the book and uh he came up and
uh Benny was signing the book and it was
just it was just a funny thing and he
was just going like this there no
[snorts]
 Spanish people on this um you
know in this book it was you know the
book goes back to 1680 right and he goes
I don't see a Lopez anywhere on this you
know in this book they were like
Carnegies and JP Morgans and John Paul
Getty's you know all the people who were
the early early people to have a seat
Um,
back then it took 13 to 15 years to to
get to a point to to get a seat from
when you started. There's no training
for the job of a broker. Uh, you have to
start as a squad, a runner, a teletypus
is how I started, making 47 bucks a
week, wearing a little blue jacket,
running around, and then if you were
trustworthy and somebody noticed you,
you needed to be the exception to the
rule. Someone would pick you up, give
you a job as a clerk, and you would
spend years and years before somebody
gave you a seat. Uh, and as I said, it
was a huge honor. Your parents showed
up, you signed a book, you went out for
a big dinner. It was a huge exclusive
club, right? The boss of your company
took you upstairs and bought you a dozen
oysters, and you felt like you were
special. You had a badge with a number,
which I've had for
37 years now. Uh, my number is 588. It's
uh, it was a number that was just given
to me. It turned out to be a very lucky
number in in numerology. And in Chinese
numerology, it means success and money.
So, that's always been a good thing,
except when the market's down 588
points, and then I I'm on the front page
of some newspaper and everyone's going,
"It's not that lucky now."
>> Um, and so up until a few years ago,
there was a you could come down to Wall
Street and get a job as a clerk and work
your way up and the company the company
whether it was Goldman Sachs or a small
brokerage firm would hire you and
sponsor you and you would become a
broker. It's happening way less and less
because the floor that used to have
7,000 plus people on it pre-technology,
you needed that support staff to run the
floor of the stock exchange. There were
clerks, reporters, backup clerks, market
makers, brokers, all that kind of stuff.
We used to have a hospital at the stock
exchange, a tailor shop, a barber shop,
uh a restaurant. I mean, because it was
a whole city. Technology came along like
any industry and it kind of outsourced
human beings. I can send out a thousand
orders in 4 seconds on a machine now. I
you don't need uh uh you know uh 1388
brokers any longer. So a lot of people
either retired or or or quit and had to
go find work elsewhere. They weren't
able to pivot. Uh I was I'm I'm a
pivoter. I'm somebody who, you know, if
I'm if I go up against the wall, I'll
keep moving like Pac-Man. I'll find a
way and an opportunity. You know, you
always ask how people, you know, make
money and stay is I I will I
failure
right for me is is great because it
gives me an opportunity to jump over
that that that threshold and go find
something new. So, um unfortunately now
the floor is a different place. There
are uh probably 700 people, not 7,000
people. There's a lot of technology. Uh
very rarely do do new seat holders come
up. We've brought out a couple of new
people over the last couple of years at
our company trade moss. Uh uh you know
um 10 years ago when my son started
working on the floor uh he took a couple
years but he got a seat. Um
unfortunately now it's not a job that
really exists. They're they're not
adding to the brokers. I believe we are
more relevant than ever before because
you know in this world of technology
there's a couple things where I want a
human being involved. I don't want to,
you know, be on a plane to Europe and we
hit turbulence and I go to the cockpit
and look and there's nobody there except
a bunch of robots. I don't want to get
into a back of a driverless car, you
know, and hit some traffic or some
craziness and there's nobody driving it.
And I don't want somebody running my
money who's an either an AI or a bot.
Those are the three places where I want
a human being. Right? So even though
technology has outsourced a lot of the
brokers on the floor, we are more
relevant than ever before. We have a big
edge. The stock exchange has made sure
that that those who have stayed have an
opportunity in edge. I just did a little
thing with all the seauite owners of all
the brokerage firms in Asia two days
ago. We explained to them about the the
need and the advantage of having a human
being at the point of execution of stock
and they were like oh my god we didn't
know that. So um unfortunately the
transition's already happened that I
don't think it's going to grow back but
those who are still here who have
reinvented themselves like me and my son
and others are super relevant and and
there to stay. But you know there last
thing I'll say is though that's a floor
broker. That doesn't mean you cannot be
a trader or a broker upstairs on a desk.
Those jobs are out there. They're there
for the for the getting. There are
hundreds and thousands of young people
going to college now coming with degrees
in finance who are going to be portfolio
managers are going to be financial
adviserss. I just did a thing with State
Street. They said there is a massive
under supply of financial adviserss in
the United States and they are going to
start heavily pumping that thing and
they asked me to be the face in the
funnel of telling that story to all the
young people who are afraid that AI's
outsourced them or there's no jobs in
finance. There are tons of great jobs in
finance. Unfortunately, the floor is not
one of them now because it's it's sort
of a just a little entity onto itself.
We are viable. We're relevant, but it's
not growing in that way. Uh I mean, it's
growing for those who are there. It's
not that open. But within the other
community, there are brokers, there are
traders, there's jobs out there
available. So, everybody run, don't
walk.
>> I love it. Well, Peter, we like to end
these podcasts off with two super quick
questions. They're kind of rapid fire.
I'll start and then Jack will end us off
here. Peter, in one sentence, if me and
you were to die tomorrow and you could
leave one more message with the younger
generation, what would that be?
Um, okay. Be kind.
Um,
find gratitude.
Don't burn bridges.
Search for joy. Find something you love
to do, get really good at it, and have a
whole bunch of fun.
>> Yeah, I love it.
>> Great. [laughter]
>> And Peter, with the uh the life and
career that you've built, how do you
want to be remembered?
>> Um
so I think that um I always get
emotional about it. Um, I think I want
to be remembered as somebody who um, you
know, my parents had um, uh, Holocaust
survivors, lost everyone in their
family, came to America and found this
wonderful life. And my father always
said that, you know, it's it's not about
the the he was a humanist. He was
somebody who said that a handshake and
the relationship and the touch from of
two human beings was really the most
important thing in the world and that
all the cash and prizes and all that
stuff's not that important. So if if I
can leave any kind of a legacy, it's
that if I've um
uh affected any one person in a positive
way to follow that path, which is find
something you love to do, get really
good at it and have a whole bunch of fun. If I've done that to one
person and hopefully tens of thousands
of people, then I've done my job at the
end. Nobody gets out of here alive. So I
just want somebody to go, you know what?
I I was down on my luck and that guy
inspired me and I'm a better man today
because of it. And uh
>> and I I I I I met him on your podcast
and that's a cool thing.
>> Amazing. [laughter]
>> I love it.
>> Well, Peter, this was an excellent
conversation, my friend. Thank you for
being here, my friend. Pleasure. It's
always amazing to see you. For everybody
watching right now, be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content, amazing
guests coming every week to the School
of Hard Knocks podcast. We're going to
put the links down in the description to
check out all of Peter Tuxman, the ENT
of Wall Street's social media handles,
as well as you have a trading academy
where you're teaching a bunch of people
how to trade.
>> We are. It's called Wall Street Global
Trading Academy. My partner David Green.
We started on Wall Street together. We
have thousands of students globally. Uh
if you want to learn how to trade and
you want to trade and you want to get
paid to trade, uh check us out. It's in
link is in my my bio. We we we inspire,
motivate anybody to come on. The
accessibility and the funding to learn
how to trade the stock market is out
there and we're the ones to do it. I
love it. And lastly, we're going to put
a link down in the description to access
the number one entrepreneur community in
the entire world, the School of Mentors,
where every week we host live calls with
the eight, nine, and 10 figureure
entrepreneurs we interview on the School
of Hard Knock. So, we can't wait to see
you on the inside. With that being said,
we'll see you in the next