Inside the Next Generation Market Wizards ft. Jack Schwager & George Coyle | Top Traders Unplugged

[00:00:01] Jack
When you get down to systems that a single individual can do, reality is you may get returns that are good, you may get a definite edge. So, I'm not saying that can't be done, but you're not going to get the spectacular type of cumulative returns or spectacular return to risk numbers that typify the people that get chosen for Market Wizards books. The single systems just don't deliver that type of profile on them and how good they are. So, it ends up being that most of the spectacular records, or in some cases all the ones we find, are discretionary traders. It's not an accident.

[00:01:17] Moritz
Hello and welcome to the open Interest series on Top Traders Unplugged. I'm your host, Moritz Seibert and this is a special bonus episode today, away from our regular schedule. I'll be speaking with Jack Schwager and George Coyle. And I'm quite excited about this because we'll be chatting about their soon to be release Market Wizards book due out on June 9th. This new book, subtitled the Next Generation of Market Wizards, is number six in the series of Market Wizards books which started in 1989.

[00:02:37] George
Sure. Thanks, Moritz. So, the book has my whole story in detail, so I'll stick to the high level here. You can read it in the book if you want to know the whole thing. But my background is really liquid alternatives, so long/short equity, hedge funds, macro strategy, systematic trading.
I was working for a family office designing trading systems. And a lot of the systems that I was designing weren't doing what the simulation said they should. And I started to see that the things that were happening agreed with what I had heard from a lot of the former market wizards who were systematic and other traders. And this really led me on a quest for knowledge because I wanted to learn as much as I could to design better systems.

[00:04:39] Moritz
Well, thank you for that, George. It's great you guys got together and great that you co-authored that book. I should preface, this new book is going to be about solo traders. It's not going to be about the hedge fund guys. It's really prop traders, I think it's fair to say.

[00:06:00] Jack
Well, to some extent this is true. Also, since the first Market wizard book, the interviews you do can lead to other interviews. For example, you know, I mean, that was true, originally, in the first Market Wizards book, where, I think I actually forget which ones gave me the other traders, but I know a few of them came from trader recommendations; people I was interviewing. And this time around as well.

[00:06:52] George
It was a lot of different sources. There wasn't really one way. And the original idea actually wasn't to write a Market Wizards book.

[00:08:32] Jack
Yeah, and, in one case I can think of, the trader actually sent an email. Well, you're not going to believe this, but I haven't had a losing month for, you know, it was like 10 plus years. And I said, well, you know, I don't know what the time preference actually planned to write a book, but I said, well, if you could prove that, the next time I do a book it could certainly be an interesting story.

[00:10:46] Jack
That's a really important question and it's actually critical. George, in this book, we shared the work, and George took the brunt of the verification process. So, I'm going to let him talk about it.

[00:11:02] George
Yeah, I mean the process from prior books was to review statements, tax documents, things like that. For this one we had to do more because you're in the era of AI where people can fabricate documents and really there's no one method that you use for everyone because it depends.

[00:13:27] Jack
It surprised me the first book, and the second book maybe, but stopped surprising me because it happened in every book. And this book backed one thing I'm about to mention that was strikingly prominent, and that is how many of these people, who succeed in totally spectacular fashion beyond to levels which people think are possible, how many of those people actually bombed out not once, not twice, but sometimes even three times; In fact, four in one case.

[00:15:54] Jack
Yeah, you really hit an important point, that differentiation. So, this book is… One way that it's very different than some of the other books is exactly the point you raise, that some of the techniques used by the traders in this book – by some of them, fall into the category which is, you don't do this.

[00:19:02] George
I think if you read the trading, I'll call it literature, you know that in a hundred plus years of consistencies you find that people say, don't day trade, don't trade small caps or penny stocks. And if given a choice, you should probably focus on being long instead of short because you've got more of a tailwind per history. And not to repeat what Jack said, but basically these guys are day trading penny stocks on the short side.

[00:21:16] Jack
I think you're right on both points. They're much younger, on an average age. And it's hard to get them to be too young because one of the criteria is looking for people with track records of at least 10 years, and preferably 20 or whatever.

[00:22:52] Jack
Well, actually, there was another point that you made that's quite correct, that they're all discretionary traders. And I think it's… Unless you're using a highly sophisticated quant approach, like Simons did, which is still around, obviously he is, or D.E. Shaw, people of that nature, where they're using highly complex models. They're trying to be the casino.

[00:24:41] George
I think in the original Market Wizards book, Richard Dennis said that a computer back in the 1970s or '80s was somewhere around $100,000.

[00:30:17] George
What is sort of persistent, despite no evidence in support of their persisting, as Jack said earlier, a lot of these guys blew up multiple times and they just stuck with it. And people in their lives were saying, you should go do something else. What are you doing? You're not any good at this. And yet they stuck with it and eventually got it.
There were seven points that I found, and I can read them here, it's in the book, that were consistent in a lot of the great traders that I've either met or studied. One of them is self-awareness. Two, is clear goals. Three, is belief in oneself and themselves, even though the evidence may not support that belief. Four, is independence. Five, is passion. Six is commitment, they are very committed to trading. And seven is a willingness to keep going in pursuit of their dreams despite fear of failure.

[00:32:21] George
But when I think about the costs of being a market wizard, I guess the two that, from this book in particular, really come to mind are in the cases of the two guys who don't have really any down months. They're in front of their screens for 14, 16 hours a day. I mean, they can't really get up. So, the cost of their returns is sort of eternal vigilance.

[00:34:22] Jack
I would add that, in this particular book, more than any other market wizard book, more people came to the conclusion that, good, I've made a lot of money, but I'm not going to live the rest of my life this way. I want to do other things.

[00:35:50] George
Sure. So, can anybody be a market wizard? Guess I want to believe yes, but I wonder. I think that one of the things that we've found with some of the guys in this book is they were just born with certain inherent personality traits that lend well to success.

[00:37:15] Jack
So, yeah, so, you know, I have a pretty strong opinion on this one. I basically believe the trading is no different than anything else. You know, you're either born to be a great athlete, or you're born to be a great musician, or you're born to be a great trader. So, I definitely don't feel that anybody could be a market wizard. Now, I think most people can learn, if they're really devoted enough, and do all the work, and do the right things, to become profitable traders. That's no different.

[00:39:15] George
In terms of what is an edge now that back then people would have said, no, I guess I would go back to the shorting small cap penny stocks for day trades. From all the research I've done, outside of this book, and I learned things. You learn things doing these books because things that I didn't think were possible are possible.

[00:41:53] Moritz
Now, as we're winding this down, I think you have mentioned it already, George, for anyone who, like me, feared that the Market Wizard series would come to an end, no, no, no. The good news is you'll have a second part coming up, and I think it's scheduled for release in 2027, so next year.
