You're the CEO of 7-Eleven. How big was
the company at that point in time?
>> 123 billion at the time and now they're
60 or 70 billion company.
>> How did you maintain your humility and
your humbleness to not let that
compromise you?
>> Not humble.
[laughter]

>> We're in front of the man's jet right
here.
>> Come on. Can't be humble and fly that.
[laughter]

>> The most valuable resource of any
company. We tend to think of it in terms
of the equipment, the assets, man. The
human resource. You can't have the yes
men around you.
>> You can't have the yesmen cuz they'll
drag you right down. They'll yes you to
death. Bible 365 times says do not be
afraid. Yoda said do not be afraid. You
got to believe, dude. You got If [music]
you're going to be a Jedi, yes, you need
knowledge, but you also need to have the
force be with you.
>> If me and [music] you died tomorrow and
you had one more message to sleep with
the younger generation, what would that
be?
>> Here's the way I would describe it. And
and I
What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James and I'm here with Jack and
Josh and we are out in Dallas, Texas
with an absolute legend. The man who
became the CEO of not just one but two
multi-billion dollar Fortune 500
companies. Mr. James Keys. James or Jim
today? What are we going with?
>> Let's go with Jim today cuz you're
James. That way they'll keep us
>> We're going straight. We'll go with Jim
then, man. Well, and but more
importantly than that, you know, I've
had the pleasure to uh meet Jim numerous
times over the last couple years, and
you're an amazing human being, man. You
do a lot for society, a lot for business
owners, and just want to say that we
really appreciate you, and this is going
to be a master class on leadership and
what it really takes to grow, run, and
lead a billion-dollar company.
>> So, James, thanks for the for the for
the kind words, but let me tell you,
since we met, you guys have gone global.
And you talk about doing good things.
Everywhere I go and I've been in 14
countries in the last year, I have young
people come up to me say, "I saw you on
School of Hard Knocks and I learn so
much from what they're able to share
with me from people who have been
successful all over the world." It's
pretty exciting.
>> I love it.
>> Really proud of you guys.
>> Hey, it means it means a lot, man.
Really appreciate that, Jim. And I know
that there's a lot of different ways we
can go, but where I want to kind of get
started off is I want to go right back
to 2005 again. And you're the CEO of
7-Eleven. You guys are of what how many
how big was the company at that point in
time?
>> Yeah, it's about uh I want to say 12 13
billion at the time and and now they're
I think 60 or 70 billion company. 90
90,000 stores worldwide. Pretty amazing.
Very proud of again you're the number
one of an 11f figureure business and you
end up I would imagine also with some of
the you know shareholders and other
people come to the decision to end up
selling uh 7-Eleven to what was it a
Japanese oil company?
>> No it was actually the Japanese ly and
it was it was a fascinating story. I I I
spent literally 20 years with the
company and and had the privilege of
sitting in virtually every chair from
running the gasoline operation when I
joined to uh being the head of strategy,
the head of I was with CFO for a while,
chief operating officer and then
ultimately CEO and um it was fascinating
because we saw the company through good
times and bad. It was a a wildly
successful public company and then they
did a leverage buyout and loaded up with
too much debt. familiar story. And by
1991, 7-Eleven was bankrupt, almost went
away. And that ended up being an
opportunity. What's my expression?
>> Change equals opportunity.
>> Turned out to be a great opportunity for
me personally and for the company
because in a successful company, I may
have worked another 20 years and never
risen to the top. But in a challenged
company when I had my head up and looked
at the opp looked at it as an
opportunity I ended up being able to sit
in chairs like being chief financial
officer of a public company would not
have happened in a wildly successful
operation. So that change that problem
turned into an opportunity for me and
for the company.
>> Could you tell that story of how exactly
you sold 7-Eleven and and kind of what
all went into that process? Yeah, it was
really an interesting time because we
had gone from all of those challenges to
all of a sudden we had 10 years of
improved same store sales quarter by
quarter. We were you know great increase
in ibita and profitability and um the
Japanese lency who had invested in us to
help us emerge from bankruptcy. They
wanted to develop China. Well, the
Chinese government actually came to
Dallas, Texas to meet with me and asked
me to bring 7-Eleven to China. And it
was hard just to say as a public
company, worldwide USbased
public company, that our LE, our one ly
could have the rights because we had a
great lency in Hong Kong, in Taiwan, in
Thailand, all these other uh all these
other locations in in in in Korea. And
so we said, you know, we really have to
go through a process. Well, the Japanese
lency really wanted China. And so they
decided we're gonna buy the company and
they ended up literally putting an offer
in and uh and taking it taking the
company, giving us an opportunity to
sell.
>> Doing business internationally can be
very different than doing business in
the United States. We've spent a fair
amount of time in in the Middle East and
how they approach business is completely
different than in the United States. you
know, they really want to get to know
you, eat dinner, break bread with you
before you even talk about business.
What was the difference between doing
business in the United States versus
doing business with that Japanese lency?
>> It was huge. Huge. And I credit a lot of
my success to uh as a kid having an
opportunity to go to school out of the
country. I did a junior year in London
and you know, you might think London's
the same, they speak English, right? I
got over there, they hated me. I was a
Yank. I was an American and I had to
learn the culture and it was actually my
Pakistan Pakistani friends and Indian
friends who took me under the wing and
said, "Dude, you're not in Kansas
anymore." And literally I learned what I
call today cultural literacy because I
had to I had to adapt. I had to
understand the Brit my British friends.
Uh my Indian friends taught me how to
play cricket and I made the cricket team
over there. All of a sudden I went from
the least popular to the most popular.
Well, little did I realize that that
cultural literacy by the time I was
leading a corporation like 7-Eleven
helped me do business in China and Japan
and other countries because I I walked
in and all my American teammates were
behaving like Americans, you know, like,
hey, we're American.
And I took a healthy dose of humility
and said, you know what, we're in their
country. We have to understand their
culture. And that was a huge advantage.
and and the ability to do business
internationally.
>> We were having the conversation earlier
today about, you know, I mentioned to
you that um this last week I interviewed
a billionaire in New York City, Jamie
Salter, who owns Authentic Brands Groups
and one of the questions that I asked
him during our interview was, you know,
his best branding advice being that, you
know, he owns Forever 21, Champion,
Reebok, you know, he owns the licensing
to Shaq, uh Elvis, Marilyn, Remember,
all these, you know, people. And his one
word to me was he paused and said global
which is when you follow Jim on social
media for everybody watching you are all
over the place. I mean I mean you you're
you're in the Middle East you're in Asia
you're obviously throughout the states
Australia
>> Africa
>> Africa
>> I mean I mean who who knows where I mean
Antarctica next probably but [laughter]
but you know on the list
>> but uh my my question is you had the
experience going into many global
markets with 7-Eleven. What is the best
strategy as a business owner to kind of
approach the global landscape that tells
you this is where you want to go next?
Are you relying on the research of other
massive companies to kind of tell you,
hey, there's going to be a massive
customer base here. You know, sort of
how when you want to open up a resale, a
retail store, it's like Starbucks, they
do all the research, you know. So, I
wanted to kind of get your approach for
going global. How do you go global?
>> Well, a couple of things. First of all,
uh I I I see it as an opportunity. In
fact, you guys are global and I am very
proud of the fact that you're out there
reaching out. You're in the Middle East.
You're in these other countries. Um
because much of the world has been
inflicted with I think it I I see this
whole nationalism trend. It's kind of a
temporary thing a little bit as push
back fear of change is happening so
fast. It's being driven by technology.
But if you think about that, just that
very fact, technology is shrinking the
world big time. I mean, when I was doing
business with 7-Eleven Japan, we had TX
machines. Not even, we didn't even have
fax machines to communicate. It took
weeks. Now, I can get on a Zoom and talk
to a friend in China in, you know,
matter of hours. Just waiting until they
get into their time zone. So, it's
changing so fast. That means that global
opportunities are everywhere. So while
everybody else has their head down
looking domestically saying, I don't
know about those other cultures, you
guys see the opportunity and you're out
taking advantage of it. I think that's
the next one of the next big things is
for people to develop this skill which I
call cultural literacy. And it really is
not just saying I'm going to go do
business in another country. It's truly
understanding where the opportunities
are and then understanding their
culture. So when you walk in, you're not
walking in as, "Hey, I'm an American. Do
business with me." You're walking in
saying, "I want to do business with you.
I want to win." When we took a trip to
Saudi Arabia, you know, we were on an
investment delegation, um, going over
there to explore opportunities in the
region in the Middle East. And one of
the biggest takeaways that we had to
realize was like, hey, when you know, in
America a lot of times you go to
networking events and you're like, oh, I
do this, this, this, and this. And, you
know, we would be meeting people over in
Saudi Arabia and you try that approach
and people are just like not receptive
to it at all because it's just like,
man, like it's it almost seems like you
have something to sell or that you want
something when it's just like if you can
actually just take time to just build a
relationship and actually show that
like, hey, I'm not just here for money.
I'm here to actually build in the market
and and and do great business here. Then
people are way more receptive to wanting
to do business. And it's just something
I think a lot of Americans wanting to
expand to go outside of the US to want
to do business there need to understand.
>> We're just so anxious. You know, it's
it's like when I was a kid, I couldn't
go sit in a pub and talk. I had to be
playing darts, pinball, something
because that's us. We're Americans. We
like to do stuff. But this idea of
relationship in business is so
fundamental to so many other cultures
and other countries that unless you're
willing to have patience and take the
time and truly know them so that they
know you and that's how they develop
trust. And you well it's principles that
even if you read in books like um you
know how to win friends and influence
people you know a lot of those
principles are super simple um but they
even matter most in a culture that you
know you didn't grow up in that you know
doesn't really excuse the hey I'm Jack
and I'm with school of hard knocks and
you know I'm over here and I'm looking
for this partnership and this deal and
it's like people they don't they don't
know you. They don't want to hear that.
It's just like man like who is this
American coming on to me. So it's very
interesting. I wanted to ask because I
think that there's so many people out
there that glamorize the CEO role in the
title and you know this being a CEO of a
company is a big deal like that is a
huge prestigious leadership position and
not many people you know there's a lot
of CEOs out there but not not a ton get
to be a CEO of a public company let
alone a billion multi-billion dollar
public company. So, what are some of the
things that when you were, you know, a
CEO of a public company, especially one
of that size, that the average person or
even the average CEO of a small business
in America, doesn't understand?
I think the the hardest part about being
uh a chief executive officer is the
recognition that you've got to be able
to see the whole landscape. You can't be
buried in perceptions. And we're all
victims of seeing things on the internet
or picking up one little piece of
information and getting a p forming a
perception.
>> A CEO has to have perspective. They have
to look at almost what I look at at
45,000 ft in this baby. The world is a
different place, a global view. And uh
and that's one of the hardest challenges
when you come from particularly up in
the organization from an operating role
uh or a financial role. Now you're chief
executive officer. You've got to have
the big picture and have a vision for
where you want to bring uh the rest of
the company. So that's that's a step
one. And then there's a whole host of
other things. Teaching,
communicating. If your team doesn't
understand the strategy, you they'll
never be able to execute it. these very
very simple I call them meta skills that
are critical to the success of of of any
leader really big company or small
>> as a CEO especially of a multi-billion
dollar company like 7-Eleven you're
overseeing thousands tens of thousands
of employees hundreds of thousands
>> what are what are some of the key
principles that you think make up a
great CEO
>> well first of the there's a an important
recognition here and it took me way too
long in my career to realize it the most
valuable resource of any company. Yours,
we tend to think of it in terms of the
equipment, the assets. No, no, no. It's
the most valuable resource that any
company has as the human resource.
Not very many CEOs realize that. We kind
of take for granted, yeah, I've got an
HR department. They do that stuff. And
ultimately, it's the people in any
enterprise that will make or break the
success of a company. So that ability to
focus on having the right people in the
right jobs, which again, 90% of us, I'm
guilty. Oh, Joe, he's been around for 20
years. He's such a good guy. You know,
he'll get better.
Taking the whole team down. You got to
make the hard decisions. is actually
better for old Joe if you cut him loose
and let him do something that maybe he
likes to do or he's better at. But these
are the hard things that a CEO has to do
and having a good human resources
professional by your side and especially
in a big company critically important.
Daniel Lubetsky who's the founder of
Kimbar he's a good friend of ours and he
had a quote that he had shared in one of
our interviews uh which was that the
only ego is the only thing more powerful
than greed in in your case right it's
very easy right I'm I'm running one of
the biggest companies in the world it's
very easy to kind of have a big head and
and and think that man like you know
like to have that ego get in the way was
there ever a time where you felt that
happening and if so like how did you
kind of maintain and your uh humility
and your humbleness to not let that
compromise you.
>> I'm not humble. [laughter]
>> Yes, you are
the best.
>> Um
>> we're in front of the man's jet right
here.
[laughter]
>> Can't be humble and fly that.
>> Um
I you know for for me it's I think an
advantage the way I grew up. I I grew up
dirt poor. If I went back to being dirt
poor, it wouldn't be a whole lot of fun.
But I know I could because that's where
I came from. And and you know, my
brothers, my family kind of keep me
humble, saying, "Dude, we know we know
the way you grew up." And and so that
helps. But but let me give you a
definition of humility. That's my
favorite. Uh guy named Norman Vincent
Peele was a uh a preacher and a teacher.
He wrote the power of positive thinking.
Right. Norman Vincent Peel Peele used to
preach on the importance of confidence.
You got to have you got to be out there.
Power positive thinking, right? But he
preached in equal doses about the
importance of humility. Not shrinking
violet humility. No, no, no. I'm not
that smart, you know. No, no, no. Be as
smart as you want. His definition of
humility I love and I've embraced. when
you're smart enough to know what you
don't know that I think I'm a pretty
smart guy but there's a lot of people
smarter than me and all I know is I know
that every person that I encounter knows
something that I don't know so my
mission find out what that is how can I
learn from you and that knowledge that I
can learn from everybody I encounter
whether it's a janitor in a hotel or
another CEO I can learn from them
>> was there an unconventional piece of
advice that you've received from
somebody that you may not have expected
to in the traditional sense that you
recall that maybe you'd want to kind of
pass on to our audience.
>> Yeah. Uh [laughter]
probably one of the harshest pieces of
advice came from uh a regular old worker
um who was I I believe working in a
factory and we were having a
conversation and knew me pretty well and
basically said, "Dude, you got to chill.
You've already accomplished more than
98% of the people on the planet and
you're like got to do more. Got to do
more.
It's not about making more money, it's
about having more freedom. Man, he was
so right.
>> Let's talk about that real quick. You
brought up freedom. Uh, and one of your
turning points to financial freedom was
actually getting an education and going
to college.
>> In today's world, there's a lot of
entrepreneurs and people that kind of
preach this notion that
don't go to college, it's useless, you
don't need to get a degree. Whereas I
actually have changed my perspective and
outlook a little bit on it uh recently,
which is that um I think that if you
have to go into tens of thousands of
dollars of like debt to get a college
degree, I don't think it's worth it by
any means. But like in our case, you
know, our dad had the GI bill for the
military and you know, we were able to
pretty much go for free relatively cheap
for the most part to school. Um and it
enabled us to, you know, get exposed to
meeting thousands of of people, a lot of
them like-minded. um and also moving out
of our hometown. So, I've come to kind
of, you know, realize that there are
certain value ads that it had even
though that the substance in the classes
and whatnot may not be the most
important stuff that's going to help
propel you in the business world. But I
would love to get your perspective on
what that education did for you going to
college and then also what you think
about it in today's world.
>> Yeah, I'm going to give you a total
counterpoint. This is like a totally
different narrative than what's out
there because what you just described is
the narrative. You got Peter Teal
telling people, "Hey, I'll give you a
bounty. Don't go to Don't waste your
time going to college." Uh Elon Musk,
don't waste your time. Just go out and
be an entrepreneur. To me, this is like
Michael Jordan saying to me, "Go play
basketball. You'll be fine." It's like,
"Dude, I can't jump." You know, I'm
okay. I can shoot I can shoot a
three-pointer, but I I am not going to
be able to rebound. I don't think I've
got a career in the NBA. No, here here's
the deal. And the reason that education
worked for me is I I don't think I
certainly I didn't know how to be an
entrepreneur. I didn't have any role
models. I didn't have the drive, I don't
think, to be a a self-made entrepreneur.
The degree got me a role in an
environment that I could leverage that
degree into better and better positions
and gave me still an entrepreneurial
environment, but in a corporate
structure. So, let me give you a number
that'll scare you. For all those people
that don't think they need college, the
Chinese have gone since 1998 from 10% of
their population, 18 to 24 year olds
going to college. Guess what it is
today?
>> 90,
>> 85,
>> not that high.
>> 61 and climbing fast.
They believe that the future is
technology.
If you're in a if you ever experience
being in a math class with a bunch of
kids from Asia, you know, like, oh man,
there goes the bell curve, right?
They're doubling down on education. So
now here's what that means. 20 million
college graduates a year, many with
STEM. India putting out 15 million.
That's 35 million college graduates.
Remember I said the the world is
shrinking.
Well, we're putting out four and
declining.
35 million from those two countries
versus our four. Who's going to take
these key jobs? you know in 20 30 years
I'm telling everybody
be an entrepreneur but get a degree
because that point of differentiation
when a CEO is looking at a hundred
resumes
they're going to go straight to the
degree first and then they're going to
see who else has you know what kind of
experience because it's really hard to
measure otherwise. Do you think though
that the traditional liberal arts
college education needs a lot of reform
though? Because I I I see the point, but
it's also I mean we went to we went to
the University of Texas, right? It's
it's a top 30 global ranked school, man.
And there was a lot of there's a lot of
 in in that curriculum. There is. There is. But look
look at look at me. I'm a political
science major, right?
>> And and now you're a legislative
correspondent.
>> Did you use any of that?
>> Yeah. I mean I didn't I didn't know I
was going to be a lawyer. Now, hey, now
Jim's going to be a legislative
correspondent.
>> Yeah, [laughter] there you go.
>> Capital Hill.
>> Yeah. Well, I am I'm pushing the and to
your point. Education is broken right
now, particularly in the United States,
and we need to change. And I am
aggressively lobbying for that change.
But but but here's my point. It's not
about what you learn right now. Because
with AI coming, everybody's like, "Oh my
god, it's going to take all the jobs."
Well, it's going to take some jobs, but
nobody knows which jobs. So if you
double down on being, you know, a a a
coder, you may lose your job because AI
may take that. If you double down on any
one thing, you just don't know. So I I
love to fly. Obviously, I tell all all
the young people that are getting their
pilot's license, get a degree because in
10 years, this thing may be autonomous.
20 years maybe, and you may be out of a
job. So if you've got a degree, you can
then pivot. And that's where ironically
I think the liberal arts probably if I
was to start over today I would be in
the liberal arts because the ability to
communicate to write to think
have critical thinking skills I think
that's going to be way more important in
a world of AI than it is even today.
>> Well a lot of people are saying you know
be careful who your doctor is in a
couple years because they might be using
chat GPT to get through medical school.
So um you know it one point that I
wanted to uh to bring up is that you
know through your journey you know going
to be coming at the top of 7-Eleven you
know you kind you climb through the
organization and I think this is a
valuable point not just for those that
aren't entrepreneurs watching this
podcast but even if you are an
entrepreneur so you can almost recognize
superstars within your organization but
what were those key differentiators that
you think you had that allowed you to
propel yourself up to the CEO role
within in 7-Eleven cuz I think there's a
lot of people that could learn from that
who might be in a job that like they're
just like man like I'm just kind of
coasting by and it's like how do you how
do you increase your income?
>> Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for using the
term differentiation because that's what
business is all about. You guys have to
differentiate yourself from everybody
else out there with online you know uh
co coaching and mentoring programs and
all that stuff. You've got to different
and you do it well. But we forget that
we are a brand individually. this brand
Jim Keys had to differentiate himself,
especially in a corporate environment
because there's a hundred other people
vying for the same opportunity, upward
potential. So, I had to differentiate.
Here's here's the way I would describe
it and and I've actually mentioned this
uh we've got a we've got a little clip
that has probably 50 or 60 million views
where I said it was change, confidence,
and clarity. As simple as that sounds to
me is the number one thing that
propelled my career because most people
encountering change put their head down.
They're like, "Man, I don't want that."
I embraced it. Confidence to do
something about it. I found that
confidence isn't something you're born
with. I certainly wasn't. The way I grew
up, man. But I learned confidence and
and this is a great example. You have to
learn confidence to be able to fly an
aircraft
>> there. I I also feel like there's a big
misconception that you kind of like you
said, you need to start a business to be
successful. You really don't need to be
the number one to be successful. I mean,
the number two, three, five at Facebook
made hundreds of millions, if not
billions of dollars.
>> And it's one of those things where if
you can be a great entrepreneur, a great
number two, a great number three, the
potential for you is unlimited. But it's
really you got to pick a the right horse
to bet on and you got to give it your
all just like you are that number one.
>> Yeah, that's exactly right. And you got
to differentiate. It's,
>> you know, in a corporate environment,
um, I never sat down and said, "Hey, I'm
going to join this company because I
think I'll be CEO someday." That was
like so far out of my frame of
reference. Um, now in hindsight, I just
I outworked 90% of the people I was
around. And I think I had something that
you guys have.
There's a lot of negativity out there. A
lot of victimhood, a lot of blame. I've
got something I call uh relentless
positivity. And I see that in you guys.
It it is I got it. I got this. Give me
the ball, coach. Put me in. I can do
this. And not not everybody has that.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it's it's well, you know,
and I think a lot of successful
entrepreneurs have that as well as as
well as executives is you have to almost
have a radical optimism about what
you're doing, especially if you're
leading an organization. Like if
somebody's, you know, working for
7-Eleven and you know, you came up on
the podium and said, "Guys, I don't feel
good about what's going on right now."
Like the company's going to be like,
"Well, how am I supposed to feel?"
Whereas if you're just like, hey, like
even if we're going through a challenge
or things like that, you know, and you
feel optimistic about it and this is how
we're handling it, like everybody, they
they still carry that like, okay, we're
going to be all right. We're going to be
all right. And and if you're especially
if you're if you're running like a
startup and and all hell is breaking
loose and things are not going well,
unless you have just that that radical
belief and vision and optimism that it's
going to pay off, you know, how's your
team going to follow you?
>> Absolutely right. In fact, I'm I'm going
to give you another uh gem. I think this
is a nugget because I've been out
talking all over the world about the
importance of knowledge, right? And I've
had a couple of people go, "Hey, there's
more to it." Because my my point is you
got to be knowledgeable, but you can
learn anything. So, whatever crisis
you've got, you can learn your way out
of the problem. And it's like, well,
what about those things you don't know?
What about those things that can't be
known? I was like, "Oh, man." Okay,
that's a tough one.
Here's what I found.
I'm going to get all I'm I'm going to
seemingly get all religious, but I'm
actually not. The Bible 365 times says,
"Do not be afraid." The Quran 170 time.
The Torah 120 times.
Yoda
said, "Do not be afraid to Luke." Why?
because the force, may the force be with
you. Now, I didn't know this until I get
told these stories around the world. And
I came back and I said, I wonder what
George Lucas meant by the force. You
know what he meant? It was a metaphor
for faith, not any one religion. You got
to believe, dude. You got to, if you're
going to be a Jedi,
it's got to come from inside. And you
got to believe. Yes, you need knowledge,
but you also need to have the force be
with you.
>> Hey, what's going on, guys? We're going
to be right back to the episode with Jim
Keys in just a second, but I wanted to
take a moment to let you all know that
if you subscribe to the Hard Knocks
podcast right now, you will not regret
it because every single week, guys,
we're bringing you the most insane
business owners and business mogul
across every industry to this channel.
So, subscribe to the Hard Knocks
podcast. With that said, let's get back
to the episode. I wanted to ask you
because we were talking about this
earlier is that whether or not you think
somebody can build wealth working in the
corporate world and the one thing that
you did very well especially when you
were a part of that exit with 7-Eleven
is you had some equity in the company
and I want to talk to those people that
maybe they're working in corporate
America they're they're going to start
out maybe they got that field business
and they're going to look and get that
job they want to be a part of that
startup per se what would you say have
you seen is the most effective way to go
about getting the proper for whether it
be equity and stock package with a
company and how you see those deals
structured on behalf of not the owner of
that company per se or the person hiring
but rather the person that's trying to
get some equity in a company. What's the
best way to go about doing that?
>> Yeah, it depends on the size of the
company. If it's a big company, it
probably has a an equity plan for senior
management. Now, your challenge if
you're starting out your career, get to
that level as fast as you can. That
means you may have to, you know, be the
first person in the morning and the last
person out at night because unless you
can get to that point that you're
earning equity, you're going to be a
salaried person for the rest of your
career. And you might at some point be
better off saying, you know what, I am
going to go be an entrepreneur so I can
develop my own equity. Um, it's a hard
personal choice to make. But okay, let
me dial back now to a smaller company. I
would have that discussion with the
ownership of the company because a lot
of smaller companies don't have equity
plans. It's a little harder when you're
not a public company to have a phantom
stock or a stock equip equivalent, but
it's possible. And I think if you
approach your owners of a smaller
company and say, "I'm here. I want to I
want to participate. I I don't care what
it takes. I want to feel like an owner."
I think they'll respect that and perhaps
craft a program where you can earn
equity even in a even in an
entrepreneurial environment. What you
know I kind of want to go back to my
point earlier about like you know as the
leader of the company you have to have
this radical optimism and kind of cast
the vision and back to your point
earlier is like you kind of have to have
that 45,000 foot view looking over that
perspective looking over everything and
how do you cast that vision onto the
rest of the team uh onto the rest of the
company because you know like to me like
I feel like the like effective CEOs that
you know a lot of the well-known known
ones that everyone does is like they get
up on stage age and they have everybody
in the auditorium like I even remember
like the video of Steve Balmer like
clapping and saying developers
developers developers like it's a
hilarious clip. Um but uh but how do you
cast vi like you know every CEO probably
does it differently but how do you how
or at least how did you cast vision onto
the employees of 7-Eleven and the
companies that you ran?
>> I've got two things I've got uh that are
tips that I had to learn the hard way.
Uh, number one, when you have many
layers of management between you and I
had 10 to 12, maybe at one point 15
layers of management between the CEO and
the store operator.
That's 15 chances somebody is going to
misinterpret the vision or strategy.
>> It's a long game of telephone right
there.
>> That's exactly that's exactly the way I
describe it. It's just like a game of
telephone. That's management. So, I cut
through all that. I took a page out of
Sam Walton's book and then uh we were at
7-Eleven one of the earliest national
users of teleconferencing. So I'd do a
teleconference and every week Monday or
Tuesday, get the whole organization and
I'd say here are the three priorities
for this week. If you do nothing else, I
want the stores clean. I want uh we got
a slurpee promotion this week. You know,
that sort of thing. So that's one to cut
through the layers of management with
communication. It's critically important
even in a smaller uh company. Um the
second is um one of the worst days of my
career. I discovered, have you ever
heard of a 360? A 360 is where you get
your whole management team and you go
around and everybody um tells them you
what they think of you and your
strategy, etc., etc. So, we had a 360
exercise, one of those human resources
things, a leadership development thing.
And everybody went around and and their
their assignment was write down the
strategy of the company. And I thought I
was the great communicator because every
week I'm up talking about the strategy,
right? Like you said, Steve Balmer, you
know,
and when everybody wrote down their
strategy and then articulated it, I was
shocked. It was the worst day of my
career. It's like, they don't get it.
You guys have been around me for all
these years and you don't understand the
strategy. Here's the problem. I was the
one speaking the strategy. It's like
learning a language. You can learn it
out of books someone else can teach you,
but until you actually get out and start
speaking it, you can't articulate the
strategy. Same thing. And so I changed
my approach to having all of my
teammates start to speak the strategy.
not just listen to it, but speak it.
>> As a leader, one of the things that
you're in the business of is people. And
you know, you have personalities of all
kinds. And you're not only just dealing
with that person one-on-one, but they're
also interacting with other team members
as well. And as a company continues to
grow and grow, you may have a superstar
in your organization, but that superstar
may also be a cancer to where maybe
they're toxic to their teammates or
they're disrespectful. Maybe they show
up late. they're just not really living
up to like the company principles.
How should someone go about dealing with
that?
>> Yeah, you've got to you've got to
you've got to cut the cancer out
immediately. And and and it it happens
unfortunately. People are people. Um
what I tried to understand is getting to
the root of the cancer. And nine times
out of 10, I've discovered it was fear.
And here's what happens. We as humans
have this thing called an amygdala that
kept us from being eaten by a lion. Um,
and it triggers the fight orflight
response. So there are two killer things
in every organization. The fighters,
people who will resist everything and
they are disruptive and they drag the
organization down or the the flighters,
the the passive aggressive that it's
even worse. Yes, boss. Good idea. Oh,
that's great. I love that. That's smart.
And then they they walk out of the room
and go, "I'm never doing that's the
dumbest thing I ever heard." Those two
behaviors are killers in corporation and
they're driven by fear. So what's the
antidote to fear? Knowledge. You've got
to as CEO be able to help their
understanding, help them get over their
fear and replace that caveman brain that
I just described with what I call the
aviator brain, which is using having
your whole team not revert to
perceptions, fear, anger, resistance,
but instead embrace knowledge and data
to make better decisions and to have
confidence uh both as a team and
individually. On the flip side of that,
I want to talk about how let's say that
you have somebody in the company who's a
fellow executive um and maybe you guys
are just not necessarily seeing eye to
eye where where you guys have like a
flatout disagreement, but you guys are
aligned in the sense of the direction
that you want to take the company, the
vision and whatnot, the characters there
like you talk about, which is is not
necessarily taught. It's the person has
it or they don't. What is your looking
back when you had some of those things
happening at 7-Eleven or Blockbuster or
any of the companies that you've run
that you started? How do you kind of get
to the the pain point or or fix that
bottleneck when you have a disagreement
about when an important decision needs
to be made in a timely manner? What was
your framework looking back that you
would kind of pass on to other people?
>> Let me give you an analogy. I was I was
CFO and I was in a budget meeting once
and someone um just screamed out in in
in the budget meeting, f him to the CEO
was in there. I was CFO at the time. F
him. He doesn't know what the hell he's
talking about. Blah blah blah. If you
don't fire him, I'm going to quit. Uh
you know, we're all sitting there going,
"Whoa, that was a pretty bad outburst.
What the heck was that?" And I mean, I
could have gotten equally mad, but
that's the trouble. This escalation
thing. If I reverted to my cave
membrane, which is what he was just just
demonstrating, right? Fight or flight.
He was ready to do both. If I reverted
and fought back, that would have gone
nowhere. It would have spiraled down.
Instead, I met with him. I had a chat
with him. Guess what the issue was?
>> What's that? He was the equivalent of
someone who couldn't read at 40 years
old. I was like, he admitted to me
basically the reason that I was so upset
is I don't understand the budget. I
don't understand finances. I came up
through the organization.
No one ever taught me a P&L. So when we
finally got to that, he softened up
basically and said, "Would you teach me
because I never learned?" And that was
why he was lashing out because his fear
of being exposed that he didn't
understand the finances of the company
>> caused him to lash out and revert to
that caveman. So again, I could have
been a caveman back and said, you know,
or instead I could have tried to get
inside of what is it that's upsetting?
Why are you resisting this? And I and it
turned out thankfully he was honest with
me and it was it was just a simple lack
of knowledge that made that triggered
that fear.
>> I want to shift gears. Uh we talked a
lot about 7-Eleven Blockbuster. Me and
you had a really good conversation about
that earlier
>> and in particular the the kind of case
study that was done about that.
>> Could you break that down again? I I
would love for you to talk about that.
How the the four different boxes that
was checked between the content, the
distribution, the exclusive. Could you
could you talk talk about that again on
a lot of like like we've said earlier,
right? A lot of people's favorite
company was Blockbuster. What really
happened to Blockbuster?
>> Yeah, I want to tell you because see
Jack thinks I'm the idiot that turned
down Netflix. He I know he said it. He
whispered it. He like I think Jim turned
down Netflix for 50 million bucks.
No, I'm just kidding, Jack. Don't worry.
Um but it's the difference between
perception and perspective. And if
that's what you think, you missed one of
the richest case studies and one of the
most amazing business lessons that
exists out there today. So here's what
really happened. [clears throat]
Netflix was doing DVDs by mail.
Blockbuster was preferred the preferred
model of the studios. We were their cash
cow. So they came to us and offered to
sell us a streaming video company. It
was called Movie Link. They had already
digitized 3,000 titles.
>> This is the studios.
>> Studios did. Yeah. Paramount, Sony, um,
Warner all came to us and said, "Buy
this entity." They partnered on it to
prevent the fragmentation that has
happened today. They want to put all the
the digital content in one place to make
it easy for the consumer and for them.
And so we said yes, we bought the
entity. We bought a company called Movie
Link. We changed the t the name to
Blockbuster on Demand and Netflix is
still doing DVDs by mail at this point.
Check one versus Netflix.
>> So you guys had the streaming before
they did.
>> They were working on it. They you may
remember a little box called Roku that
they were trying to get, but they had no
content at all. So step two, content.
were approached by Viacom,
one of the big studios, former owner of
Blockbuster, and they said, "Hey, we're
going to package up all the longtail
content. You've already got exclusivity
on the new releases. We're going to
package up all the old movies streaming
and we'll grant you the rights." It was
100 million bucks a year. It's a big
ticket, but we'll grant Blockbuster the
rights. Nobody else would have anything
to stream. Blockbust uh HBO and Disney
were going to be the only other content.
Check two.
Third, Google approached us. They just
bought YouTube. Said, "We're getting
studios are killing us because people
are they're posting up free content on
YouTube, movie content. How about if we
do a collab deal, collaboration,
distribution, collaboration, YouTube,
everything free, Blockbuster, everything
paid,
TV, movies, games, everything.
Love it. My board signed it. It's front
of their board for the definitive
agreement is front of Google board.
Now, had we gotten that deal, check
three, checkmate. And if Reed Hastings
was on this podcast, he'd go, "Yeah, we
were dead."
But here's what happened. 2008, Leman
Brothers collapses.
The General Motors in Florida go into
the White House asking for a bailout. I
wish I had a bailout. Nobody's going to
give Blockbuster a bailout. We had a
billion dollars of debt and the
perception was we were going to file for
bankruptcy.
The article came out in the LA Times and
the New York Post. Blockbuster about to
file and all of a sudden I got a call
from Google. Deal's off. No distribution
deal. Can't justify $100 million
exclusivity on content. Backed off.
Netflix then acquired that content, not
exclusively, but now they had something
to stream. And the rest is history. We
ultimately were forced into a
restructuring.
Still stayed the course. Had to pivot
from transforming the company now to to
saving the company. Took it through a
restructuring. Got it sold to Dish
Networks and we live to see another day.
>> Where did all that debt come from
originally? Was it from the rapid
expansion of Blockbuster or where did
the debt come from?
>> Not at all. Uh, Viacom I mentioned
previously had acquired the company. You
remember the name Wayne Heisenga, built
Waste Management and Autoation, all
these great. He was a great business
guy. He's the one who really drove
Blockbuster to be the company that it
was. And um, and so he sold the company
for $8 billion to Viacom in I think 200,
not sure exactly. They ended up coming
spinning it out into an IPO. So
returning Blockbuster to being a public
company uh in 2004 and put a billion
dollars of debt on. Not an outrageous
debt load as probably 2% of Ebida at the
time. But dial forwards
much of that debt was due five years
later. The year 2009, third quarter of
2008, a whole financial market
collapsed. Banks were shut. I got a
third of a billion dollars I've got to
get refinanced. And that was what
spooked my studios. And it it wasn't
even refinancing the debt that hurt
Blockbuster. It was the fear of the
studios that what if Blockbuster files,
they took my credit terms from 90 days
to cash and that that forced our hand.
>> How did you originally get connected to
be the CEO of Blockbuster?
>> That's actually a fun story. I was out
trying to buy the company because after
a good run at 7-Eleven and knowing the
power of technology, I was being
approached by a lot of private equity
firms saying, "Let's go buy something um
big private equity firms." So, I said,
"Okay."
>> And you would be the CEO of that of
whatever company you bought.
>> Correct. And do a turnaround. And so,
I'm looking at and I know this sounds
>> they're like, "We need to take that Jim
Key sauce over here, man."
>> Yeah. [laughter] Well, that Well, well,
because it worked at 7-Eleven, you know,
and uh and we had a good run. We had a
10x increase in in equity value and the
private equity firms love that. So, uh
so I was looking I had two I had two uh
targets. I know this this sounds crazy
now. Radio Shack and Blockbuster.
Remember those? Remember Radio Shack?
>> Absolutely.
>> Think about RadioShack. They're selling
parts and pieces and all this stuff, but
what people forget is they were the
largest cell phone retailer in the
world.
AT&T stores, Verizon, those didn't exist
back then. So, here's Radio Shack with a
corner on the cell phone business and
the computer business. They were selling
Dell's and and and Lenovos and and uh
they wouldn't sell Apple, though. So,
I'm sitting here going, "Okay,
they've got hardware.
Blockbuster's got software content. What
if you bang these two together and every
cell phone that we sell through this
store, we sell with Blockbuster inside?
free um streaming and then we do
pay-per-view on the new releases just
like we do in the stores and we sell the
devices out of both the Blockbuster
store and the Radio Shacks store. Bang
the two together. It was here's the way
I looked at it. It was a technology
agnostic Apple store.
If I carry a Blackberry at the time and
a Dell computer and a Sony TV, I can
make them all talk. I'd put a person in
every store like a little mini Genius
Bar and make it work. That was the
vision.
private equity liked it. They said,
"Yeah, we're gonna we're gonna we're
going to back you." And they took me on
a road show. And on that road show, one
of the potential investors picked up the
phone and called Carl Icon.
And Carl was an an existing investor in
Blockbuster. And he said, "Kez, just
come. Let's do this for Blockbuster.
Forget about the Radio Shack thing for
now. Let's turn around Blockbuster. Put
this in place and then we'll go buy
Radio Shack later on.
Trust me, you're an operator. I'm a
financial guy. I got your back and he
did until he didn't. [laughter]
>> For somebody that kind of is wanting to
get into that acquisition game like even
whether it be buying massive companies
like the big private equity companies
that you're talking about or even
smaller size like multi-6 figure
companies, seven figure companies,
somebody wants to get into kind of
buying those companies. What are some
things from your perspective being that
you've seen it from all ends of the
spectrum that would tell you to kind of
avoid whether it be going into that
industry as a whole or just you know
like a particular company?
>> I don't think there is any such thing as
a bad industry because I think any
industry can transform can be
transformed as long as they're willing
to embrace change. Um what I'm looking
for when I look at a company is have
[clears throat] they have they been able
to transform? Here's what happens.
Blockbuster was the same. Radio Shack
was the same. You get to a certain point
in that fear creeps in and inertia
creeps in. I call it big company
disease. 7-Eleven had it. It's kind of
what drove 7-Eleven into bankruptcy in
the 90s. They just didn't want to
change. To me, that is an absolute
opportunity because if a company hasn't
embraced technology and their
institutional culture is keeping them
from changing, let me add it because
that's a great opportunity to bring
technology to transform the culture and
to leverage that what could be a great
brand into uh something completely
different. Look at Apple
back in the day, right? I I I I wouldn't
have used a Mac for a doors stop in
1990. And now look at what happened.
They reinvented the brand. You mentioned
how 7-Eleven went into bankruptcy in
the9s.
Blockbuster was lacking innovation.
Radio Shack lacking innovation. And
there's companies even today that lack
innovation. You know, I think there's a
huge trend right now talking about the
home service based business, the boring
business. And the reason there's such a
big opportunity is because you can take
a more traditional operator, an older
operator, and implement technology and
allow it to be a flourishing business, a
more efficient business.
When you, if someone is a owner of a
business today, and they're starting to
have that realization that, hey, what
I'm doing today may not work 5 years
from now. What would be your advice to
them? bring in bring in people that will
challenge you because [clears throat]
the the problem isn't with the
individual or even the leader. Often,
especially, you said the magic words,
[clears throat]
 they recognize that what
got me here is not going to get me to
the next level. If they're surrounded by
people that are afraid and have that
inertia, they're never going to get to
the next level. So, the best way to
break that stalemate, if you will,
culturally and organizationally, is have
the confidence. Again, back to that
human resources thing.
>> You can't have the yesmen around you.
>> You can't have the yesmen because
they'll drag you right down. They'll
they'll they'll yes you to death and
you've got to have people pushing you,
making you uncomfortable because that's
when you learn.
>> Jim, we like to end these podcasts off
with two questions for our guest. I'll
start and then Jack will go ahead and
finish it. So my first question for you,
I know I asked you it earlier, but I'm
going to ask you again for the podcast,
but if me and you died tomorrow and you
had one more message to sleep with, with
the younger generation, what would that
be?
>> Be fearless. [snorts]
You've heard me say it before. Um, fear
is probably the single biggest killer of
careers, of companies, and
[clears throat] candidly even societies
if you think what's going on out there
in the world. And there is absolutely
nothing to fear if you use knowledge for
things that can be known.
And then if you turn inside and follow
your faith or the force, if you will, uh
for those you don't know, that
combination of knowledge and your own
beliefs,
there's nothing to be afraid of and you
can accomplish absolutely anything.
>> I love it. And Jim, how old are you now?
Yo, we got through this whole podcast
>> without having to say that.
>> Without having to say that. Yeah.
>> Yes, sir. Big number.
>> Hey. Hey. Old enough to fly this rig
right here.
>> Yeah. Old enough to fly that. Yeah.
>> Several times. Yes, sir.
>> But old enough that they're eventually
going to take [laughter] not let me keep
flying that.
>> I got you. Uh, if it was all said and
done tomorrow, how would you want to be
remembered?
>> I Interestingly,
uh, I hope people will remember me for
um trying to make a difference. I'm
doing what you guys are doing. Um I'm
just at a you're you're doing it at such
a young age. It took me my whole career
to realize that I think I can help
people achieve a lot more and fulfill
their their true opportunity, their full
destiny. And and I'm out trying to do it
whether it's the book or or or doing it
like this with podcasts. And you guys
have such I I'm so envious in a way
because you're already making a mark not
just here in the United States, you're
making a mark worldwide.
And I mean, I think humanity is on the
verge right now of either going
backwards with fear or going forwards
and and and
using knowledge in ways we've never seen
before. That's what I believe. You guys
are helping to advance that mission of
helping humanity learn how to learn.
>> I love that, Jim. And this was a
beautiful podcast, my friend. We
appreciate you, my man. Thank you so
much, Jim. It means a lot. For
everybody, for everybody that's watching
right now, we're going to put the links
down in the description to Jim's social
media as well as Education is Freedom,
man. A book that you wrote to help
inspire millions of people. Uh, and also
everybody watching right now, be sure to
like and subscribe for amazing content
and episodes we have coming every week
with the most successful business
owners, executives, uh, moguls in the
entire world, you guys, just like the
man Jim Keys right here. But let's go a
step further, guys. If you go down and
click the link in the description of
this community, let's take it a step
further, though. If you go down and
click the link in the description of
this video, you can get access to join
the number one entrepreneur community
and network in the entire world with
over 7,000 like-minded entrepreneurs
where you get direct access to live
calls every week that we host with the
eight, nine, and even 10 figure business
owners that you see on the School of
Hard Knock. So, we can't wait to see you
on the inside. With that being said,
we'll see you in the next