Mr. RJ Jain. You grew up where? I grew
up in India. You are the founder of
price.com, which recently hit a
valuation of if you want to share it.
>> It's like 200 million right now. 200
million dollars, and you sold your last
company to Google for nine figures.
>> Yes, that's correct. I'm not sure you
guys remember the game FarmVille. Yeah.
Yeah. That was my first job after
college. That was massive. That was my
mom and dad basically were you have a
stable job. It was very risky. It's a
very traditional Indian family. Nobody
in my family basically ever started a
company before. So, I was just like the
first one to do this. Where is GTA 6?
>> Oh,
Where is it at? Use price.com by the
way. For a young startup founder out
there right now who's trying to make it,
what do you think is like the biggest
challenge early on for startup founders?
>> that's RJ, if me and you died tomorrow
and you had one more message to leave
with the younger generation watching
this right now, what would that be?
What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks Podcast.
I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh,
and we have another incredible guest for
you all right now. Okay, we're out in
Los Angeles with Mr. RJ Jain. You grew
up where? I I grew up in India. India.
>> So, I was I grew up in a city called as
Kanpur, which is close to New Delhi.
Yeah. And then I moved to
Michigan for my college. I did I did my
undergrad from University of Michigan
computer science. And for the people
that don't know, you are the founder of
price.com, which recently hit a
valuation of if you want to share it.
>> Yeah, it's like 200 million right now.
>> 200 million dollars, and you sold your
last company to Google for nine figures.
>> Yes, that's correct. First of all,
congratulations, man.
>> Thank you so much. I'm proud of you. You
know, I want to say that. Did did the
younger you living in India have any
idea that you were going to come to
America and build two multi, you know,
hundred million dollar companies? Did
you have any idea?
>> no idea.
Never the mindset.
So, tell us what was the mindset then?
You know, cuz when did you move to the
States actually? I moved when I in for
my college. So, I was like 18, 19. Yeah.
Yeah. And what did you come to study? I
came here to study computer science.
Computer science. What did your parents
think about you transitioning coming to
America? Was it something that they
encouraged or tell talked to us about
your upbringing growing up and you know,
was it a very traditional Indian family
or what was it like? Yeah, it was a very
traditional Indian family um and none of
my anyone in my family basically ever
started a company before, so I was just
like the first one to do this. And what
was your exposure to entrepreneurship?
>> I think it was same from like problem
solving and I was like 12 years old. I
have a very interesting story by the
way. I was like uh building like a I
built a flash game for my sister. Like
she was pregnant and so she was having
like I want to make a flash game showing
like how she would look like if she has
having a one kid or how she would look
like when she's having like a twin or
like three and so forth. And and that
brought I showed it to my family. I
think flash was really built big at that
time. So I showed it to my family and
then
>> When you say flash game and what what
does that mean exactly? Basically flash
game it was big so I wanted to
it brought so much joy in the family and
that was really exciting. And then I
started like
I just continued building from there. So
I started building out games with sites,
video games,
flash things. And so then I built
something for for my school and it was
very much recognized by my school as
well. I got awarded. And then I realized
oh wow, you can build something that can
bring so much joy in people's life and
also it get can be rewarding and it
opened so many doors for me. So that was
really the starting point. And then I
went to Michigan. I had a similar story
as well. I And at University of
Michigan?
>> University of Michigan Ann Arbor, yeah.
So I I I was going to a career fair and
I was like basically like uh
I was trying to go to the career fair
but no I was having hard time finding
the right companies for my degree
basically. And I was struggling to find
the right company so I built a tool that
makes it really easy to find the right
companies for my specific
like degree and and my work. And so that
made it super easy and I thought I did I
solved it for myself. Then I thought
okay, wow, this could be same thing
could actually be used by other people
as well. And that's basically I thought
I can build it for some product for the
entire college and the college adopted
my my stool as well. So it all I think
this this the thread across everything I
built so far it started with me like
facing a problem myself and I think like
I can use I can actually help out other
people to win the same process. So
that's how I love that and because I
also am a big believer in often times
the best founders and the best companies
that are built are often times forged
from like a personal pain that someone
solves the issue for themselves and then
they realize that I'm not the only one
that's dealing with the same thing.
>> the same exact problem as well. Yeah.
I think seeing the same problem. So We
were just talking about it with one of
our business partners in some commercial
real estate. He talks about that every
business that he starts is the byproduct
of like a pain that he's currently
dealing with in his company.
>> And and the best part is that the the
founders the he's the he or she's the
best advocate for the company. You're
the best salesperson.
>> Exactly.
>> Um
I I'm I'm I'm curious for you
you started with a a gaming company and
and while you
when you know, you were younger and then
while you were at school
for you what was like that you know, you
ended up going from that to you know,
selling a company to Google. What was
that when did when did that happen in
your career timeline and kind of break
down for everybody what what that
company was? Yeah, so I I was working at
Zynga the gaming company. I'm not sure
you guys remember the game FarmVille.
I'm not sure how popular it was on
Facebook. That was my first job after
college.
>> So I was
That was massive. I was playing a lot of
like video games that time. I was
playing like Mafia Wars and all those
games and so I was like oh my god, I'm
going to work for the game like gaming
company and I can play games and I can
like have so much fun.
And so that's how it started and so I
joined Zynga the gaming company and
initially I joined FarmVille and then I
was start I joined a team that was
helping out all game studios Zynga wide.
And that's basically when I realized oh
wow, I'm building out these game
features, but the QA team was taking
long time to get back to me and I was
like I'm like I want my things to go
live as soon as possible. So I wanted to
automate the QA process. So, I left
Zynga with two other peers of mine to
start a mobile testing company. And the
idea was very simple, like if you're
building a an app, you want to make sure
your app does not crash in the App Store
because if your app crashes in the App
Store,
that's really bad for you.
So, uh so, that idea was to automate the
testing process so you can upload your
SDK build and we can go through
different scenarios and make sure your
app is working on different kinds of app
uh devices. Especially, it's very
challenging to build something on
Android because Android has so many
different variations of devices. I mean,
so iPhones also has many, but Android is
like
So, and there was not like a single
company like doing it in a way that's
like automated like that. So, we started
building out this tech and then uh
Google uh so, it started with two other
co-founders and and it was
eventually sold to Google basically.
>> Yeah. We're going to talk about that
acquisition, about how that all
happened. Before this podcast goes any
further, I want to take a quick step
back to talk about how we got here,
meaning you sitting down right there. Me
and you were in Beverly Hills at at the
Maybourne Hotel and you came up to me
and you said, "James, you know you know
I'm I'm a big fan of your stuff. I love
your channel. I'm the founder of
price.com." There's such a lesson there
in itself for all the people watching
right now, which is that you can't be
afraid to go up and have a conversation
with somebody.
>> Yeah. Where you and and just in this
conversation, I want to give you your
flowers. You got a great energy about
you. Somebody you know, you want to be
around a person like you. Did you always
kind of have the social skills? Did you
improve them over time? You know,
because I think that's one of the most
underrated aspects for any young
entrepreneur, anybody aspiring to be
successful in business is you got to be
a likable person. You know, you have to
be not not afraid, but confident to go
up to people. So, I just want to kind of
talk to you about your perspective on
that.
>> So, I feel like every I I feel like um
it's it's you have to be open-minded. I
think every conversation is a shortcut,
by the way. You can learn years of
experience in minutes uh if you're
paying attention.
And so, you have to be a curious person,
by the way. So, I feel like that's what
happened. Like, I'm like I I get
energized when I go out and meet people.
And I like to talk to everyone. Like,
people say like RJ's doing his rounds.
RJ, you would have loved coming to Saudi
Arabia with that. Oh my god, I'd love to
go with you guys.
Looks like we're all good at that, by
the way.
So, the reason why I say that is because
you said well, you know, we recently
went out on a business delegation out to
Saudi Arabia. And man, that we were
networking for
I'm 12 hours a day. I'm I'm not I'm not
kidding. I'm not kidding. From the time
you got up, you put a suit on like the
like the blue suit that you got on
there. I'm not kidding. I literally had
a blue suit like that. I had to put on a
blue suit
>> suits just for the trip. Just for the
trip. You got up, and you're already
jet-lagged like crazy. So, you you get
up, you know, you're you're you're
putting like toothpicks in between your
eyes to keep them open, and you are
talking to people from all over the
world
for 14, 15, 16 hours a day.
Just And And you know what the best part
was? Is that like you have to answer the
same question over and over again. So,
what brings you to Saudi Arabia?
I'm sure that we all go out together. We
were pretty much killer, by the way. We
were like so good at this.
It'd be a lot of fun. Um
But But But yeah, what
that that you talked about that
curiosity you had. Was it something that
you think can be developed, right?
Because I'm You love the fact that you
mentioned this idea that every
conversation there's a shortcut. We love
to say that mentorship is like wisdom
without the wounds. Because you can have
one conversation with somebody in your
business, maybe in a different business,
and you can learn like it's like
collapsing time, right? Decades of their
experience, hardships that they had to
go through to build their company
ultimately.
What is the secret to that, though?
Because you can tell somebody to be
curious. Is it all about asking the
right questions? Because how do you get
the most out of those conversations with
people? Yeah, I feel like paying
attention to these conversations and
also I feel like I I'll tell you a
story. So I have like 100 investors in
my company by the way, but a lot of
people I met out and about.
I also I'm
super excited to share with you guys,
but I brought Aston Hall.
He's the most viral creator on the
internet right now and on across the in
the world.
Every video is I think some of these
videos has Most of videos average around
like 70 million views.
>> And you're bringing him on the
price.com. So yeah, I'm first time
announcing this by the way, but he's
joining as a global brand ambassador.
He's also invested in my company as
well. I met him outside. Just like out
and about. And I I was like talking to
about my startup about my life journey
as well. And he got really excited and
we we hung out for the whole week. And
then we he was just like RJ, let us
let's do this. And that's how it all
happened. So you never know by the way.
I think it should be like always be
open-minded and not have like too many
filters and talk to like everyone. And
maybe like some of these won't lead to
anything. Some will lead to something
amazing. I feel like if there's one
thing I'm learning, we just got to let
this guy walk outside and do it.
The company is just going to grow.
And why is it that you're embracing
you know, a a content creator per se?
Like like
I wanted to get your perspective on the
value in that that you saw. Is it Are
you really focused on the distribution
that kind of Ashton presents with the
millions of followers that he has across
all platforms or talk to us about that.
>> Yeah, I feel like distribution is
something that is a challenging for us.
It's something that we have been
we have I'm not sure how much he I would
love to tell you more about price.com as
well.
>> Yeah, for all the viewers, if we could
even before proceeding go a little bit
further on First of all, how you even
started this company? What exactly
you're doing? So yeah, I think like as I
said, the common thread across all the
companies I've started is like me having
a personal problem. And so I faced a
buyer's remorse. So I bought something
and I found the same thing slightly used
refurbished for half the price. And I
kept having that experience by the way.
So I thought why not build a very simple
tool which can compare side by side a
new item to a slightly used item or
refurbished. You can do responsible
shopping, great for the environment and
you can save money. It's a very very
hard computer science problem because
you're matching an item from let's say
Nordstrom to an item on Poshmark or Rent
the Runway. Uh you're matching based on
text and which uses like uh
NLP and all that stuff.
So that's why I started building out
this engine and I I thought it can use
to solve a much bigger consumer problem
to provide the best prices on the
internet. So price.com is an AI-powered
platform to make your shopping smarter
and automated. The way it makes shopping
smarter is we're combining all different
ways to save in one platform, cashback,
coupons, comparison shopping, both
online and in store. We have over
100,000 stores right now that you can
save on. Uh but we can save on flights,
hotels, medicine, restaurants, consumer
goods, fashion. Uh and then how we
should make your shopping automated,
it's something that we've been working
for last 2 years. I think AI agents is
really taking the whole space right now.
I feel like millions of transactions
will be done by AI agents moving
forward. And so we have designed this
multi-agent workflow that we're working
on. Some AI agents can go and literally
find the best product to buy uh for you.
One AI agent can find the best price.
One agent can find a working coupon
code. So we're combine we're doing a
multi-agent workflow and one AI agent
can actually make the purchase on your
behalf. So that's the future of
shopping, automated by the way. You
don't have to do anything. Right now we
ourselves sometimes we want to like call
over assistant by the way, hey, can you
just go and find me this item, the best
product to buy for my mom basically? So
imagine a AI literally going and doing
it for you. And then the AI can also
find you the best place to buy it from
and cashback and coupons and make the
purchase on your behalf. So you don't
have to go and enter your shipping
details or credit card details. It can
make the purchase on your behalf.
>> I I I feel like a lot of the companies
that you've started and your
entrepreneurial ventures started from
like a personal pain point or a problem
that you had. For price.com, what was
that pain point or problem that you saw
that you were just like, "Hey, like
we can really make a big difference in
the market here."
>> Yeah, so I told the buyers remorse
problem that I had. So, I was I bought
something and I kept getting slightly
used stuff for half the price. So, I
thought like if I can do
sustainable
choices I can make. I can do responsible
shopping, great for the environment, and
I can save money. And actually at that
time I was also working on a documentary
by the way about soil. Uh soil is Kiss
the Ground and I I read the book as
well. And I'm not sure you guys remember
the time when all the Napa was in fire,
Malibu was in fire. It was really hard
for so many people. Uh I used to go to a
place that it burned down as well. It
was So, the idea was this uh Kiss the
Ground was to
uh regenerate soil by the way,
rebuilding the soil health. And so, I
was doing a lot of work on
sustainability. So, I thought like,
"Wow, okay, I can start something around
sustainable. I want to give back." And
that's how it happened. Yeah. When did
you start the company? Uh so, I launched
it 3 years back, 2022. 3 years ago. So,
in just 3 years you already It took me a
few years to build it, but launched in
2022.
>> But you already hit a multi nine-figure
valuation. Uh yeah, so it's been
exciting by the way. So,
>> man. What was the secret to that growth
and that scale up to a hundred million
dollar valuation that quickly?
>> It One thing I just want to add on to
that, was there some sort of like
network effect that once you hit a
certain amount of users to where it just
started to expand on its own or what did
that kind of look like?
>> I think we're still having the we're
still trying to gain a lot of more
users. By the way, so users has been
challenging.
We have to spend a lot more money on
paid ads and paid ads is expensive.
That's why I'm trying to bring on Aston
Hall and we brought on Tim Tebow as
well. Uh and someone I really respect
too and everyone, but he's also helping
us on on getting more and more users
right now. Um but I think like the
biggest thing is right now distribution
for us. We're also looking for partners
who can help distribute price.com. So,
we're actually on the Erewhon app. I'm
not sure you guys know about the
Erewhon, the the grocery store in Los
Angeles. We are part of a company called
a Sweatcoin. It's the number one health
and fitness app. And then also like
Deel, the famous like a like a payroll
provider as well. So, we're also
expanding more and more uh and and from
distribute price.com much more quickly
because this paid marketing is effective
and it's really great. You can really
measure things more properly with paid
marketing, but it's kind of like you
have to spend a lot lot more money to
get the scale that you that I'm looking
for. I love that. Are your parents proud
of you? Uh they are. They're really
proud of
I think I'm the I think the only one who
has like built and sold a company. So,
Yeah.
But all my my mom is a housewife. My dad
is basically uh a businessman, too, but
not like a VC-backed startup. He has
like uh day-to-day yeah. When when when
when
>> He's retired now as well.
>> When you went off and did your own thing
and when you decided to start your own
business coming out of school, was there
a little kind of pushback from your
parents saying that hey RJ, I don't know
if you should do this. I think that you
should kind of continue to, you know,
keep your job or or were they in support
of you ultimately going the
entrepreneurial route? I feel like the
biggest thing as an entrepreneur you
have to take a risk, by the way. That's
the most important thing. And I feel
like otherwise, if you are staying in
your comfort zone, everything you get is
a predictable outcome. If you're looking
for sizable outcomes, you have to take
risk, by the way. So, my mom and dad
basically were you have a stable job,
everything is so fine. Why you have to
leave a stable job like this? And it was
very risky, but I think like I feel like
that's how you do something you truly
make meaningful changes in people's
life, make something impactful, and also
get rewarded as well in a sizable way.
RJ, real quick. The name of your company
is price.com, right?
>> Yes. How in the world did you get that
domain? Yeah, so again, I was like
>> That's a great question. That is an
insane domain. I mean like when you
think about I mean that's an incredible
domain to have.
>> Right. And it's another similar story. I
was out and about. I told someone about
my company, my vision, by the way, and I
met him at an event.
>> So, price at the time. And he had it, by
the way, and I
And I I also called my company as Price
Technologies Inc., by the way. And so,
it was pretty amazing to get this
domain, by the way, and it worked out
amazing, because it opened so many doors
for us. It's so hard these days to build
a startup, because there's so much
noise. And so, you have to have a good
domain, good brand. Otherwise, it's so
hard to build, like, everything is so
expensive, like, paid marketing
expensive, talking to any partner, if
you go to say, like, I'm like, like,
XYZ, they will like not take your
meetings. If I say price.com, they take
my meetings, by the way.
So, so, do you do you think it's
critical for entrepreneurs in today's
world to be able to own the domain for
the name of their brand and their
business? Do you think that that's that
that's a necessity, in a sense? I won't
say about the B2B businesses, because
you don't need that. You should not
spend money anything to buy a domain,
because ultimately, you can sell a B2B
software by being on a phone call.
That's how you used to do it in my
previous company.
But, I think to build a B2C, because you
have to acquire users. And paid
marketing is I mean say that's working
great, by the way. It's really scales
really quickly, but I feel like that's I
think you have to figure out a better
strategy.
Otherwise, you would really depend on
investors. You have to keep raising
money, keep raising money, and that's
how it goes. And then,
they are the ones taking shots. So,
what's the business behind price.com? Do
people pay a subscription to become a
user, and and and and that's how you
make money? Or is it you get a
difference between uh the user and like
the the set when they're making a
purchase? Like, how does that kind of
work? Yeah, so, basically, like,
price.com, the business model is that
you go from price, let's say, to let's
say, uh Nike, for example. Nike gives us
uh 12% commission. We give you 6% we
keep 6%, by the way. So, we get a cut on
every transaction.
Uh same thing, you go to a restaurant,
for example, and and you buy, let's say,
whatever your bill is. Uh we keep 5%, we
give you 5%, by the way.
So, the more you go and use price, the
user save money, we we make money from
that every transaction. So, it's like a
win-win situation, by the way. And
businesses, they actually get customers
because they all these businesses right
now, they want customers. They want more
sales, by the way. So, it's like a
win-win across the board, by the way.
Amazing business model.
>> It's almost like affiliate marketing at
the highest level.
>> Yes, that's what it is. Affiliate
marketing, basically. We also have a pro
subscription, by the way. So, people can
pay $9.99 a month or $99.99 a year, and
they get more savings. We also just
recently launched buy with AI concept.
The idea is these AI agents who can go
and make the purchase on your behalf,
and basically can fill out your shipping
details, credit card details. So, you
don't have to go and It's like a
one-click checkout outside Amazon. And
so, that's
available to for the pro members, as
well. Buy with AI. Where do you see the
future of AI heading in the next one to
one to two years?
I feel like AI is changing everything. I
think like it's just you have to use AI
everywhere. We're We're using it heavily
in content creation right now. There's a
a kind of a company that we've been
using. Have you heard of Opus Clip? Yes,
yes. You know Opus Clip? So, pretty
much, especially for content creators, I
mean, I'll I'll preface it by saying I
feel like it's probably one of the
greatest gifts to content creators in
the world. They launched what's called
Agent Opus. Okay. And essentially, what
it is is you we could take an audio from
a conversation like this or a meeting
that you have or even a script that you
create, and it will literally create a
short-form video for you that you're
able to post and publish to promote your
brand or your product. So, it's like I
have like I haven't seen anything like
uh
Agent Opus. It's It's insane. Guys,
we're going to be right back to the
podcast with RJ Jain very shortly, but I
want to talk about something that RJ is
making very clear throughout the entire
episode. He's talking about how AI is
one of the greatest opportunities in our
entire lifetime. And what we were
talking to him about as content creators
is that one of the most valuable tools
for anybody trying to leverage AI to
build their brand, to promote their
business, to create content in today's
world is Agent Opus, which is what Opus
Clip just launched. And what this does
is it makes your content production
incredibly more efficient. You don't
have to have this crazy team or pay all
these different editors or people to
ultimately create your content for you.
You could take an audio from a
conversation just like this or even a
simple script that you create and it can
literally create a short-form video for
you that you're able to post on social
media. And the craziest thing is it does
not look like this AI-generated content
that you see and you immediately scroll
once you see it. It looks like actual
engaging content that is going to stop
your viewer's scroll. Guys, trust me.
Okay, we grew The School of Hard Knocks
to a channel with now 22 million
followers and I can tell you one thing,
one of the biggest bottlenecks that
people have when it comes to creating
content whether for themselves, for
their brand, or for their business that
they're affiliated with is the amount of
time that it takes, the amount of money
that it takes. Well, that's exactly what
Agent Opus from Opus Clip allows you to
do. It can take one idea that you have
and turn it into content that is ready
to publish right now. So guys, waste no
more time. Go down and click the link in
the description of this video to start
using Agent Opus today in your business
and watch your content and your business
change forever. With that being said,
let's get back to the interview.
>> I'm using Cursor a lot for my recording
and everything and my team uses it. They
love it, by the way. I think they use it
for everything. It makes it so much
faster. I think the gap is shrinking
between idea and execution, by the way,
because of AI. And that's what is
happening because it's so much faster to
execute, it's so much faster, it's so
much cheaper to build things, and that's
what is happening a lot right now with
AI. Um I correct me if I'm wrong, but
you worked as a like an entrepreneur in
residence for like a venture venture
capital firm. What, you know, obviously
from your time there and just as you as
an entrepreneur, what are you seeing for
like different companies and startups
that are looking for investors? Like
from the investor point of view, like
what are the types of companies and the
types of founders that you're looking to
invest in? Uh I invested like 10
companies. That was like uh few years
back, but um I enjoyed a VC firm, too. I
wanted to understand what goes behind
the scenes, by the way. That's why I
joined the VC firm. I was also trying to
figure out because they were the
investors in my previous company. And
what what did you learn behind the
scenes from being with like a big VC
firm?
>> I think like the biggest thing I learned
the process, like how the partner
meeting happens, like what goes in the
partner meeting, by the way. And that's
like was so curious, by the way, because
these guys are
Uh
we always heard about these partner
meetings. Like, what really goes in that
partner meetings?
So, I was like learning that and
everything. And then also
um
I think the the biggest thing is I think
like the what VCs are looking for is
like these days is also like every
company is they say they are AI company
right now. So, how to cut through the
noise? That's the number one thing. The
second thing is I think
>> there's a lot of there? Like a
lot of VCs I feel like there's a lot of there, for sure, by the way.
Like, you can literally use the AI for
like if you use one API call, you can
say I'm an AI company, by the way.
Okay, did you hear about the shoe
company?
No, no, I've never heard that one. Okay,
there was a failing shoe company that
just swapped. Uh did you hear about
this? It was like yesterday or two days
ago.
It was a shoe company that was failing
and then they were like uh we're going
to go into like AI.
Yeah, oh Al Birds, Al Birds. Oh, yeah, I
know. I met the founder once, by the
way. Yeah, yeah, Al Birds. They they're
fully pivoting away from shoes and
they're going all in into AI. This is so
crazy. This is so crazy. Yeah, it
skyrocketed. It it went nuts. Oh my god,
that's crazy.
>> like how the hell did a did a clothing
company just turn into an AI company in
the overnight? Just Wow, I need to read
more about I I I
I know we we're asking about but I I I I
want to kind of go back to I know you
were you've invested into a couple
different companies and you got to kind
of see the behind the scenes from the
VC. Uh and you got to cut through the
noise from the AI stuff. But like when
it comes to like I guess like a
different you know, we we've talked to
tons of investors and they've always
said we typically invest in the founder.
Like like that's one of the things that
they look for. Like it's just like,
"Hey, like does the founder have that it
factor or not?" For you, what what are
those sort of things that you look for
when you're looking to invest into
somebody? Yeah, I feel like I think a
resilience. Uh I think uh sometimes uh
you can tell a lot, basically, if
someone is how they will do or how they
will
um when things are going all like south,
like how would they able to come back
from it or things like that's a very
important too. And I feel like second
thing is um someone who's willing to
take risk, have taken risk in their life
and what kind of risk they have taken
because you have to take risk all the
time as a founder by the way. And and so
if you keep doing the things which
everybody else is doing, you're never
innovating. So I think that's two things
and also the speed like someone who's
how exit fast they can execute because
as the AI
is making things faster to execute, you
have to be adapting quickly. You have to
be like going in
uh like really moving in a very fast
speed in execution. So I would like it's
a combination of resilience,
uh speed, uh as well as someone who has
taking risk, who is taking big risk.
>> You mentioned that you've taken on
investors for Yes. You mentioned that
you've taken money from 100 investors
for Price. You've had 100 people that
have invested in in the price. Why that
many people?
>> very challenging because I was like I
was building out this company and people
say like oh how do you beat Amazon on
comparison shopping? And one of the
things that I learned by the way is the
biggest lesson I learned by the way from
running this startup. I because it took
me a long time to build the startup. The
the competition was at that time there
was not like too much AI that thing that
we have right now in the last 2 years.
So I have to build everything from
ground up. And I So my as I said to you
we AI Price.com is a AI platform that
makes shopping smarter and automated. So
if I talk about shopping smarter, that's
how I started the company in the first
place.
So I was trying to build a cashback
coupons comparison shopping. I started
with the comparison shopping. That's the
hardest thing to build. So it took me
many years to start getting meaningful
revenues.
And so then a lot of the investors right
now you they they lose patience or they
feel like oh what will going to happen
and it's been such a long time. They're
not making money right now. So it it was
challenging to raise money. I kept
raising uh
for multiple investors, small checks,
whatever it takes. I don't want to give
up on this. And then we added the big
piece of cashback business and that was
the a big moment by the way when you
start growing and everything. So you
have to do whatever it takes to survive.
So, that's what I was doing, by the way.
I was taking $25,000 check, $5,000
check, whatever it takes. Give me the
money.
So, is this a pretty capital-intensive
business?
It's very capital-intensive business
because you have to I think building a
consumer startup is a very
capital-intensive because you have to
have all the partners. And also, the
user experience matters so much, by the
way. You cannot just go out these days
because they're so used to really
amazing like chat GPT application which
works all the time. You go there,
everything is so fast and amazing.
People are used to that Uber Eats,
Instacart. They want these amazing
experiences. Everything is slow, bad
experience, they won't use it. People
have very high bar right now, the
shoppers and the users these days.
So, I think like B2B, I feel like I can
call my any company and say like use it,
I'll tell you how to do it, and they
will do it. B2C is really hard. You
talked a lot about like partnerships and
building them because I feel like if you
can get integrated into, let's just say,
credit card companies or or like, you
know, financial platforms who, you know,
want to promote them saving money and
their users saving money. Like, there's
no better platform than a platform like
yours.
Getting off the ground, how did you go
about building those early partnerships?
And was there a partnership in
particular that kind of just changed the
entire trajectory of the business? Very
great, Chris. I think obviously, I would
say the partnership of getting the
domain price.com that really helped me
because it opened so many doors for me.
That's the biggest partnership basically
that happened, but
I would say like initially, like it was
a chicken and egg problem for us. Lot of
like retailers like Walmart and Target
and all these guys used like, "Why we
should work with you guys? You're not
even live yet. You don't have a working
product, by the way. Why we shouldn't
give you our feed?" So, we said like,
"If you don't give us a feed, how would
we build this product out, basically?"
So, we had the
We had this thing we have to have this
kind of conversation with almost every
brand.
So, we had to do whatever it takes to
get the initial brand, start building
out we did some niche like we did
watches is the beginning. And then, I
was initially, as I said to you, we were
trying to match a new item to a slightly
used item. So, that was we built out
like a a browser toolbar. And then,
that's how we started that. But then, we
built the website price.com. And then,
we built the iOS and Android app. That's
been been a journey, by the way. And
but, I think some of the partnerships
have been amazing for us. Like, we just
did the partnership with Kayak. Um now,
we can actually we can you can compare
flights and hotels. And we we also able
to offer cash back on that, too. So,
that's pretty exciting, by the way. So,
it's partnership and we're seeing really
good conversion rate. We need to grow
more traffic on the website, but we are
talking to the head of partnerships at
Kayak. And they've been working We're
working very closely with them. So,
that's how it's been, by the way, these
partnerships. Yeah.
Let me ask you this. I want to go back
to the company that you had exited to
Google. Cuz I feel like we jumped right
into Price, which is which is great.
But, the process of selling that
business,
what is that actually like for somebody
that aspires to one day sell a company?
Was it you seeking a buyer? Was it them
coming to you cuz they discovered you?
Or talk to us about that process and how
the acquisition came about?
>> Right. So, I think like
uh the company was acquired. Uh
so, basically, my co-founders worked on
that deal, by the way. So, they were the
business people, and they made the deal
happen. So,
uh I think like basically, it was a it
was like I think we had multiple buyers
that time. And and it worked out great,
by the way. So, Did Did And the buyers
reach out to you? Like, they they found
I think we were trying to solve this
problem. Like, for example, like I think
as I said to you, mobile testing was
really hard to do on Android devices.
And everybody was saying it was really
hard to test on Android. And so, Google
IO was happening. And And so, that's
basically like, "Oh my god, like this is
like we have to do this thing and get
the word out and and all." So, that's
basically was Yeah. The big driver of
that, too. So, I think uh but, I think
it's just like a a thing that we're
trying to solve. And that was a clear
fit for a company. And that's what
happens, by the way. You you build
something that they think like oh wow,
clear synergies, we need this, this is
going to solve the pain point, they will
buy you. 100% and how many co-founders
did you have in that company? I had
three co-founders. With Price, I had
I'm just by myself.
>> You're by yourself.
>> Solo founder, yes. So what is the
biggest difference kind of doing it by
yourself now as opposed to having
multiple founders? Did you not enjoy
having other co-founders in the previous
business or tell us your thought process
on that.
>> Yeah, so I feel like it's been I think
it's like a lot of pros and cons by the
way. I would say like especially it's
very lonely if you're being a solo
founder. A lot of times I'm like oh my
god, I can't it's so overwhelming. I
cannot sleep by the way. It's happened
so many times. I was like I had
situations where I was like oh my god, I
only have a few months of runway by the
way. I need to figure this thing out.
>> still having those days today or are you
kind of past that now? I think like I
would say like still sometimes like it's
like a phase of the company by the way.
It happens, it goes away by the way, but
I think the beauty is like you have to
keep resilience. It's like you have to
keep like at it by the way and go back
to whatever it takes to not die and not
survive. Yeah, I think we obviously like
as a co-founders like I felt like
there's a lot of like like conflicts
happens when you're co-founders and
things and I just felt like I don't want
me that in my life right now.
And so I just went for it and I
initially I thought I'm going to bring
more people to it. Just continue like
just kept raising money, kept building
the team and I just kept building it
out. I just I didn't plan anything by
the way. It just happens. You want to
solve this problem. I just went for it.
I took some small checks, kept building
it out, kept building the team and then
I just continue going in that direction
basically where I didn't needed a
founder. I didn't There was never the
plan that I don't want a co-founder by
the way. It just happens to be like
that. Okay, how how do you now? Uh I'm
in my late 30s. In your late 30s. So you
moved to America about 20 years ago.
Yes. What were some of the biggest
cultural differences that you noticed
between America and and then being
living in India for the first half of
your life?
Yeah, the biggest thing basically
I think when I came down obviously like
I had like a much more stronger like
the accent by the way. I think maybe
it's like a bit less. What do you guys
think? No, you said
You guys Am I sounding right? Am I
sounding good by the way?
I mean it's it's it's still there in the
background but but but we yeah yeah it
sounds great.
>> Okay okay sounds good. Okay. But I was
also very shy as well because I was like
oh my god like I'm like I I was like it
was like tough you know what I mean when
you move to a different country and I
was like I had like a accent was like
was a hard time understanding people and
everything as well. So that's Sorry it
was challenging in the beginning.
And
but I think like I felt like that it was
very welcoming everyone and I felt great
by the way.
And so that's how it happened by the
way. So it was just like and I was just
like building
I built a a software to in Michigan the
career fair which was adopted by my
college. So a lot of college students
were using it. They became friends of
mine in that process by the way like oh
my god your tool is so helpful and
everything. So I was like kind of like
became like a star like I was walking
around like you know what I mean like
like come and say me hello by the way
for that. So that's amazing.
Do you still I mean do you partake in
any business ventures out in India or
you 100% primarily focusing cuz I know
that I know they got some billionaires
out in India. Yeah so I think like I'm
like so much focused on Price right now
and that's pretty much my because I'm a
solo founder too every day is like
non-stop. It's like a roller coaster
ride by the way it's like it never
stops. And then your your users are they
all in America or you looking outside of
the country as well? So price.com is
supported in 35 countries right now
including India, Israel, UK, Australia,
Canada, all these places by the way and
Europe as well.
So but we are not spending money right
now on marketing those places but we
have done a lot of sales in those
countries as well.
And that's why I think Ashton Hall would
be great as well because he has a global
presence and something he can help me
get the word out in other countries as
well. So I'm really excited to have him
on board. Why why not directly market
and target to those customers especially
in like the different countries? Is it
because I would imagine the most
expensive place to acquire a customer is
probably a place like the United States.
>> Yes. So, why not go out and target
people in those different countries? I
mean so like I can I can say like
basically that it's also the lifetime
value in those countries is much less
compared to US. So, I think you you it's
cheap it's more expensive to acquire,
but the lifetime value is also in the
same proportion as well. So, if you
acquire someone in India, the lifetime
value is much lesser there. So, I I
think like I want to
>> do you why do you think that is first of
all? Why why why why is Is it just cuz
America Is there a lot more brand
loyalty? consumer America bad Cuz we
love That's true as well. Plus I think
it's more expensive everything here
compared to like in India. So, I think
like that's another reason as well. Uh
so, I think like that's why I think like
if you're spending money in a restaurant
for example here in Beverly Hills, it
costs like $200.
I feel like in India it might cost like
20 bucks by the way. So, I'm making the
less on that transaction. So, that's how
the lifetime value is less as well. But,
I think like the biggest thing I'm
trying to do right now is to spend more
paid ads in those places, more paid
marketing. I'm trying to grow globally.
Uh if you look at the stats right now
for YouTube like 500 million people
using it in you in India and like 200
million people using in US.
So, I think the market is much bigger.
Same thing happened with chat GPT by the
way. So, I think I think I have to
capture that audience and I'm going to
go in full force the next this year or
so or maybe next year and I will try to
capture and make price.com a global
household name. I feel like two things
will never change. People will always
shop. People will always look for ways
to save money.
If you look like 100 years in the in the
past and if you look 100 years forward,
I think those two things hasn't changed
by the way. So, I think like people will
look for deals and they feel rewarded
and they feel great after saving money.
You you had mentioned that you don't
especially for consumer brands like B2C
brands, you have to spend money on paid
ads. What do you say What what do you
think about from an organic content
perspective for like hey if you're a B2C
founder, what do you what do you kind of
see from an organic content posting
organic content on social platforms,
what do you see the value in that?
>> No, I see a lot of value. I think some
brands has seen a lot of value. Like if
I talk about Alo Yoga, I see how good
the organic thing they have they have
done by the way and everything and I
feel like for price, we have a
a tougher place because we not like
having like a specific product by the
way or maybe haven't figured that thing
out yet but I'm I'm like I think that's
something I'm still improving basically
the social media content and it's been
challenging for me. I have worked with
different agencies but haven't figured
that thing out out yet. We're doing a
lot of work on SEO and I feel like if
you can search like hey let's say you
search for like a Nike cashback and we
could be on the first page of Google
search, that could be really amazing for
us and in the future I feel like I don't
have to spend any money on paid
marketing. I don't have to raise any
money from investors and let the company
grow itself by having this SEO working
and sending us free traffic and I see
that's the future but I'm not there yet.
And I'm improving my SEO on a daily
basis.
Uh we also brought on Tim Tebow and
Ashton Hall right now to help us on
making it more like helping us create
viral content which can go viral. I
think some of their pieces has gone
viral. So I'm really betting on that and
then I'm doing paid ads which I spend
money on Facebook, I spend Google, I
spend on Snapchat, TikTok. I'm spending
on all these platforms and and we are
seeing really good cost per download
right now but we need a lot of money to
spend to get the scale that we're
looking for millions of app downloads.
So we have to spend it cost us $2 cost
per download right now. So it's like $2
just to get 1 million but we're looking
for 10 million 50 million users.
>> Yeah. Is there a paid advertising
strategy that you've been able to
leverage that's worked very well maybe
for entrepreneurs to kind of learn from,
you know? I mean I want to get your
thoughts on paid advertising. I think
there's a thing that you have to always
make sure Facebook has a thing called as
Facebook match quality score. So like on
the on the dashboard, it tells you like
how good the signals you're sending back
to Facebook. So make sure that's like
stays like not like on the scale of 1 to
it has to be like eight or nine. I think
that makes your cost of acquisition much
cheaper. Don't spend money until like
you really feel great about the product.
Otherwise, you will lose money. Cost of
acquisition will be much higher.
Investors will see it. Oh, wow, you're
spending all this money on marketing and
your revenues are not growing. What's
happening by the way? So, like wait
until you feel like don't feel pressured
or forced to spend money on paid ads.
Don't have wasteful marketing spent.
So, for for someone out there who maybe
doesn't have as much experience or
capital, how would you recommend them
going about proving, "Hey, this is a
product that people actually want." And
pretty much kind of find trying to find
that product market fit within the
marketplace before they go all in on
trying to sell it to the masses? Yeah, I
feel like I I talk to I'm obsessed with
talking with my users by the way. I talk
to them all the time. I have like a
I I send multiple texts like, "Hey, we
launched this and I can you give me
feedback but I love to hop on a call."
So, I'm like I do it all the time
basically. I think friends and family
everyone uses Price in my family by the
way. They cannot shop at anything
otherwise if they don't use Price. So, I
call my family all the time as well. So,
I literally like I'm calling people all
the time like anytime I'm
like driving around in my car. I'm like
calling my friends, "Hey, can you
give me feedback on this thing I just
launched it?" So, I'm constantly doing
that and I think that's like great way
seeing like
getting feedback from the friends and
family nearby.
>> So, what you're saying is you have to
talk to the customer. You have to talk
to customers. You have to be customer
obsessed by the way. I think that's how
you build great products. For, you know,
a young startup founder out there right
now who's trying to make it, they got
that resiliency trait, for you, what do
you think is like the biggest challenge
early on for startup founders that like,
"Hey, if they could get over this one
thing like they would be they would be
golden." Yeah, like go back to those
nights where you That's what I'm I'm
trying to That's hard, Jay. Come on.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean I'm still those cold
cold sweats, by the way. So, it hasn't
changed a lot, by the way. I'm I'm I'm
I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm curious
about that because like you you would
already had an exit before, and now
you're playing the game again. Right. Uh
and so like like, you know, most people
after they've had an exit like that,
they they would get comfortable, and
they wouldn't want to, you know, go in
on another venture. For you, what what
kind of keeps you like hungry to
actually like dive in on another
company?
>> I mean, so my previous company was more
like B2B. B2C is much harder, by the
way. I feel like I think so, but I'm
sure B2B guys will say the other way
around, basically, but uh but I think
like I feel like for me,
um
the biggest thing is AI is changing
everything. So, you have to adapt AI.
A lot of people say like, "Hey, what's
happening now? Is it going to AI going
to lose jobs?" I think like AI won't
take the jobs, by the way. It's someone
who's using AI will take the jobs, by
the way. So, that's how I feel like. So,
you have to be
so agile, you have to be adapting AI,
and it's all about the speed. You have
to be like move quickly. Like every day
is changing, by the way. So, you have to
make constantly executing all the time.
And RJ, after going from selling, you
know, one business with a couple
co-founders to now being a solo, you
know, founder of this company, who are
some of the most important hires that
you've made so far? How big is the team?
We know that you've got a bunch of
investors about a you've taken some
capital, right? How big is your team of
like the the day-to-day? So, we have 30
people team. I think the biggest hires I
would say I've done is my head of
engineering, by the way. We worked
together. He came from Michigan, as
well. And one of the smartest engineers
I've ever met, by the way. So, and also
my head of DevOps. I think he changed a
lot of like game, as well. Um and also
like my UI UX guy, I think he's made a
lot of improvements to improve the
product, and he watches the retention
very
uh pretty much every single day, and
checks like, "How can we improve the
product as overall?" Um I think those
are the some of the key people I brought
on board, but then also my board
members. I'm very grateful. I have three
board members, right now. And they're
very involved. I talk to them almost
every week. And and they gave me a lot
of feedback and they have been always
been great partners to me. So, I'm
really lucky that I had these amazing
board members and investors who are
really involved with my startup as well.
One of the things I'm kind of curious
about is you grew up and you built a
Flash player game. Yes. And then you
went to Zynga. And you were behind the
scenes on one of the most profitable
games of all time. Actually, gaming
partner right there. He's got a big
passion for gaming. Oh my god. I mean, I
can take this conversation off line.
And
I'm just so curious cuz like that's
>> Hey, where is GTA 6?
Where is it at? Use price.com by the
way.
I have the best deal on that.
But I was just like did you not feel
enticed at all to potentially, you know,
enter that sphere of some sort of like
cuz I mean, if you think about it,
FarmVille, they built the product. They
have the concept down and then it's just
in-app purchases. I mean, I'm sure
there's money to, you know, grow the
team, continue to grow, you know, the
user base. But at that point, digital
products are pretty much purely profit
besides maybe the cut that the App Store
takes out. Did you never want to enter
that sphere?
I think it changed a lot, by the way. I
think when Zynga came in the market, it
was primarily desktop and then mobile
took over.
And then also I'm I'm sure you guys
remember when during the time when you
playing a game by the way on a Facebook,
uh
Facebook used to show the on the feed
for everyone, by the way. So, if you
share something, everyone used to see
it.
And then the algorithm changed the
Facebook. So, they only allow they only
show you the feed now if you are playing
the game, basically. That changed the
whole game a lot, basically. This was
not easy now
to have like a FarmVille like product
because of mobile. It's harder to play
games on mobile like that. And the
second thing is it's not going to go
viral in the way it used to be in those
times. So, I feel like it's much harder.
I think I have friends who have started
building out games and they have built
games and they have shut down the
companies by the way because it's so
hard to build those things to go viral
and you have need a lot of luck as well.
I feel like you need a lot of luck to be
successful by the way and I think that's
kind of a big part of like being
successful, too. Yes. RJ, you're in your
late 30s now. We like to end these
podcasts off with two questions for our
guests. I'm going to start and Jax can
end it off for us, okay? So, RJ, if me
and you died tomorrow and you had one
more message to leave with the younger
generation watching this right now, what
would that be? I would say like the the
two things I would say for the younger
generation is one is like focus on uh
building a niche skill and be
exceptional at it. And and then it'll
compound over time. Uh second thing I
would say uh to a younger self myself is
be open-minded. Talk to everyone. Uh
every conversation is a shortcut. You
can learn years of experience in minutes
um by just talking to people and that's
how you gain wisdom and everything and
that's so important. So, combining depth
and curiosity uh that's the best way to
move faster and in life and compared to
everyone else. And RJ, looking at your
legacy that you've had so far in your
career and everything you're building,
how do you want to be remembered? I
think for me the biggest thing is impact
on scale. So, I want to like impact I
want to make meaningful impact and not
just millions of people's life billions
of people's life. So, for me that's what
motivates me, that's what drives me
every day and that's what I'm focusing
on Price right now and
hopefully with the next company as well.
I love it. Thank you so much for having
me, guys. I really appreciate it. Thank
you.
>> my friend and for everybody watching
right now, guys, be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content coming
every week to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. We're also going to put the
link down in the description for you all
to check out price.com for yourselves
today and any of your social media
handles we also want to include down in
the description as well that way you all
can follow along with RJ's journey. And
one more thing, guys, we're going to put
the link down in the description to join
the School of Mentors, which is the
number one most powerful entrepreneur
community and network in the entire
world where every single week myself,
Jack, and Josh host live calls with the
eight, nine, and even 10-figure
entrepreneurs, the billionaires that we
interview on the School of Hard Knocks
where you get to ask your questions to
the guests that we have on this show,
the people that we interview on the
School of Hard Knocks, and you ask them
questions about your business, your
life, and your next move. So, we can't
wait to see you on the inside. With that
being said, I'll see you in the next
episode.