the founder of one of the largest
supplement and energy drink companies in
the entire
>> world. Last week we did 23 million in
net sales. None of this makes any sense.
>> I am not an academic. I graduated
college with a 2.5. I was never really
good at anything.
>> So, we bootstrapped Bloom for the first
5 years to $180 million. We had no
partners. We had no advisors. We had no
mentors.
>> We learned business the hard way.
>> And we were working out of an Airbnb in
Santa Monica, one bedroom, one bathroom.
We had Thanksgiving as a team in that
Airbnb.
>> We didn't go to Christmas for 5 years.
>> like, "I will give you a million dollars
to put this product in every Target
before January 1st."
>> It was the best investment we probably
could have ever made.
>> Most beverage brands fail. Why is that?
>> Everyone in today's society is obsessed
with this idea of like having a
prescription.
>> Did you model another brand's playbook?
>> I think this is our 250th product.
>> Our team and my wife is incredible at
saying no. They say no to 19 out of 20
of our ideas.
>> that.
>> Cannot have yes-men.
>> Was there ever an event
>> that almost killed the company?
>> Yeah. This was easily the most stressful
2 3 months of my life. I'm in my I'm in
my dream car. I'm in a McLaren 720S. To
my right at the red light is a [ __ ] box
car, Domino's delivery sign on the top.
And he's having the time of his life and
delivering pizzas. I'm in total misery.
And this was supposed to be like my
dream.
>> How do you want to be remembered?
>> What's going on, everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James, and I'm here with Jack and
Josh. And we have an incredible guest
for you all today. We are here with Greg
LeVekia, the founder of one of the
largest supplement and energy drink
companies in the entire world right now.
We were just talking before the podcast.
You guys are what? Are now a top five
energy drink in the entire world? For
sure.
>> Bloom. Country. Country. US. US.
>> in the country, but Bloom's the name of
the business.
>> Yeah.
>> And and and what did you guys do in
revenue this last week for the for the
people watching?
>> Last week we did 23 million in net
sales. Record week for Bloom. And like
it just every week's a record week. It's
out of control.
>> So, you guys made $23 million last week.
>> Dude, that's how many That's how I mean,
how many That means I guess we sold Does
that mean we sold 23 million cans last
week? More?
No, sorry. It means half of that. It
means we sold a
12 million cans last week.
>> That's crazy. What does that feel like?
Beyond like I mean I mean just like when
you really take inventory right now and
you go into a quick deep thought, what
does that feel like?
>> Dude, it's it's overwhelming. It It It
There's a There's an element of weight
being lifted off of my shoulder of like,
"Wow, we might actually pull this off."
But But there's also an element of like,
"Now the responsibility's even greater
because like the opportunity's only
yours." And I recognize that the
beverage is on 2 and 1/2 years in right
now, and I feel like the the real like
what makes a brand
infinite or immortal is when you eclipse
the third year. So, I'm very paranoid.
Only the paranoid survive about like
crushing next year just as hard if not
harder than this year. Cuz I feel like
that's what will make us like the next
Red Bull, the next Monster, and like
something that's generation proof.
>> And how old are you?
>> I'm 31.
>> 31. So, you're still super young and
you're building the You're building the
crap out of this thing.
>> Dude, that's That's 2026 though, right?
I mean, we're seeing so many youngsters
just I mean, you got kids in their 20s
who are running bigger brands than
below. I'm like, "This is the time to to
take that stab." Like when I when I even
think about talent acquisition and who
we're hiring,
your resume's almost obsolete for a lot
of these categories. It's like you don't
have experience with TikTok Shop. You
don't have experience with AI, right?
So, it's like I almost prefer just
surrounding myself at this point with
younger and younger people who grew up
with AI or grew up with TikTok. And like
they're the experts at those things. And
so, I feel like when you have that first
principle thinking and free agency,
which is kind of how I approach my whole
career,
it doesn't matter what your experience
is cuz the world's just changed so much
in the last 10 years.
>> Right. But you said something there that
this is the time. Like And you hear all
the time. I mean, even like we just
interviewed Bill Ackman out in Beverly
Hills. He's like one of the greatest
investors of all time. He said that now
is the greatest time in history for to
be an entrepreneur. Why do you feel that
way?
>> I I just I can just You know, if you
were to try to start a business 15, 20
years ago, let's use an energy drink
business as an example. You would need
trucks. You would need manufacturers.
You would need, you know, massive supply
chain and procurement teams. When we
launched Bloom,
I downloaded a Shopify store, right? I I
called a third-party manufacturer. I
called a third-party logistics company.
I was able to outsource procurement. And
it's like all I needed to do was
understand brand and marketing on a
digital level, right? And then I could
even like partner with the formulators
and figure out how to make the best
formula. Like you can now today you
don't need to own and and create or or
incept all of that infrastructure. You
can outsource it. So you can have a half
a billion-dollar energy drink company in
2 and 1/2 years now. It used to probably
take 2 and 1/2 years just to build the
[ __ ] manufacturer, right? So it's
just a completely different time that is
incomparable to any other decade of or
any other generation of
entrepreneurship. Love it.
>> Yeah, and I mean I I want to touch on
something you said there. You've been
You pretty much you know brand and
marketing very very well, but all these
other things you were willing to
outsource. And I feel that there's so
many like people that own a business and
they're entrepreneurs and they they try
to do everything themselves. Like
they're just like, "Oh, well, I'm I'm
going to do the sales and the
fulfillment and all those sorts of
things." When it's just like, "Hey, like
you can really just go partner with
somebody who is 100 times better at this
thing than you are and let you just be
the driving engine of that thing that
you do really really well."
>> Yeah, so we bootstrapped Bloom for the
first 5 years to $180 million. We had no
partners. We had no advisors. We had no
mentors. And we learned business the
hard way. Like this this hairline, this
bald spot back here, these gray hairs
that I'm hiding, like like I earned
those. And when we decided to go into
the beverage space, I just knew that the
only way for us to use the brand equity
that currently existed at its full force
was to partner with the center of
excellence of manufacturing and
distribution. So like we called up Dr.
Pepper. We called up C4 here in Austin,
Texas. And we said, "You guys are the
best at that. We're the best at brand
and marketing and have the relationships
with retail and have the relationship
with our community. So it's like, how do
we just skip all of those tribulations
of learning that stuff that I frankly I
don't even enjoy and don't want to learn
and we do what we're the best at, you do
what you're the best at.
>> And I want to touch on that too because
I believe I've heard you almost compare
entrepreneurship to a video game before.
In in a previous video you basically
talked about like hey if you're a young
entrepreneur like and you're building a
business you have to level up to get to
that next level and it almost sounds
like when you first started Bloom to now
like even yourself like even though
you're playing at a higher level you had
to level up in the game.
>> Yeah. And I just think about that young
entrepreneur that who's first starting
like they're 20 21 they got this
business that they're building in
college very similar to you were and
it's just like man you have no idea how
much leveling up you have to do over the
next 10 years if you really want to get
to the next level and play it play a
billion dollar game.
>> Yeah. I have two ways of thinking about
it. I think if you're an entrepreneur
and you're trying to level up as fast as
you you can in your 20s which is how I
thought about it literally every 6
months you should be like an
unrecognizable man to yourself in the
mirror. Like you should feel you should
look at photos of yourself from 6 months
ago and be like wow like I was in a
complete I was a completely different
man 6 months ago. And that's how fast as
a as a person you need to be leveling up
as an entrepreneur taking on these world
and taking on bigger challenges but it's
also just a constant giving up the good
for the great right? And giving up with
the good for the great can mean like we
before Bloom we had a multi-million
dollar fitness business. We had a
fitness app, we had instant download
PDFs, we were selling we sold a million
booty bands and it was a good business.
We could have lived a comfortable life
and we basically had to step away from
that business and take on the bigger
challenge which was introducing or sorry
incepting or launching Bloom. And so
once we you know we launched 200 plus
products within a nutrition portfolio
and then one day we're like what's the
biggest challenge we can now take on
with everything that we've learned all
the wisdom all the strategy that we've
picked up and it was like let's go after
these big boys like this
you know deca billion dollar category
which is energy drinks and yeah so
giving up the good for the great as
often as possible I think is how you
continue to level up.
>> What were those conversations like with
Dr. Pepper to have them become your
distributor? Because I would imagine
like you have to have a lot of
conviction to go to a massive
distributor and company like that or was
it just cuz you proved the credibility
organically on your own that they were
therefore willing to become that big
partner with you and help you get into
more retail?
>> We were really like this master class or
this first example of a digital brand
showing that consumers shop omni
channel. So like you'll learn about a
product on TikTok and Instagram and buy
it at Target, right? And that and like
up until Bloom launching in Target, I
don't think retail has really recognized
that. And so as we continue to prove
that out with our nutrition business and
then as our community was asking us to
make an energy drink, we initially
partnered with C4 and did a test launch
in Target's nationwide. And that test
launch after just 3 months was such a
blowout success that we sprinted down to
a Frisco or wherever Dr. Pepper is and
just said, "We need this on your trucks
and we need to put this national in
70,000 retail doors." And they took the
bet on us. So, you know, I I think a lot
of the time you need to you you need to
prove yourself, but that doesn't need to
take years, right? You can prove your
you can have a proof of concept in our
scenario just in a couple months and
then you take that to their table and
you're like, "This is what I'm capable
of. Imagine what I could do with your
help."
You know?
>> Bloom's well known today.
>> But you've been in the game for 10
years.
>> Yeah.
>> How did you even get started within, you
know, fitness and entrepreneurship as a
whole? How did you even get started in
all this?
>> Yeah, so first of all, none of this
makes any sense. Like I am not an
academic. I graduated college with a
2.5. My wife dropped out and probably
graduated at the same GPA as as mine
eventually.
>> Where did you go to college?
>> Uh Drexel in Philadelphia is where we
went to college. Uh we were not we were
not academic. I was not athletic. I was
never really good at anything. All I
kind of knew how to do was bench press
and help people get in shape maybe. And
so and so my wife, when we first started
dating in college, went through a
a physical and mental health crisis,
gained a gained weight, and then I
helped her or we worked together to help
her lose 90 lbs. We started to post that
on Instagram
and it started to get some traction and
I had a digital marketing understanding
and obsession with the drop shipping
boys of the time and all of the Facebook
ad arbitrage and we started to run
digital marketing to shout from the
rooftops about how my wife or girlfriend
at the time changed her life. And then
people started to say, how can I have a
similar transformation? So, we had no
[ __ ] money. We had zero dollars, but
we had a university laptop and access to
the university library or actually ran
into a Barnes & Noble's and we took our
laptops to Barnes & Noble's and we just
created an instant download eight-week
workout guide, eight-week nutrition
guide and we started to sell them. I
didn't even know what Shopify was. So,
people would DM us, I'd send them a
PayPal me link, say send me $9.99 and
I'd email them the instant download PDF
and that eventually turned into booty
bands. So, before I even graduated
college we were selling booty bands out
of Mari's dad's attic. Sold over a
million booty bands. I was talking to
Pakistan on WhatsApp more than I was
talking to anyone in America. Just
getting more than
>> So, that's how you were learning the
back end of like product and fulfillment
was was through the booty bands.
>> Dude, I I got a Shopify because I was
losing my mind trying to just keep track
of all these PayPals.
Like and
I was such an a novice, an ignorant
amateur of this business space that
every day I'd go to my student bank
account at TD Bank and withdraw all the
money. Because I didn't realize that
like you should keep money in the bank.
Like I had no idea what was going on. We
didn't have podcasts like this. We
didn't have YouTube's like this and we
all know that you're not learning this
in business class in college. They're
teaching you how to go be like a
consultant for Coca-Cola. So, they
weren't teaching any of this [ __ ] So, I
was keeping all of the money for tens of
thousands of dollars eventually in the
glove box of our car cuz I didn't really
have a permanent home at the time. So,
like the the the initial, you know, seed
stage of all of this entrepreneurship is
like at stage as if a four-year-old was
running this thing. Like it was sloppy,
but the we we valued the consumers and
we or we over delivered value to the
consumer time and time again and every
time we launched a new product, you
know, they trusted us to give it a shot.
>> So, you you launched this business with
your wife that you met in college. You
know, you you did that business together
and then obviously um
started Bloom together. How was that
process been about uh building a company
with your wife?
>> It's been crazy, man. I mean, from day
one we were really a mom-and-pop
business. Like it was Mari and I,
um her her her following was asking for
supplements. She didn't We didn't know
what to suggest cuz we'd walk into a GNC
and Vitamin Shoppe and everything was
red and black, yellow and black covered
in very masculine, right? And we were
like, "None of this is speaking to our
our girl, our follower." And so we
launched Bloom and we started with a
pre-workout and
eventually the sales started to
accumulate to such an amount that I was
completely overwhelmed. And so I called
my mom, who was a CPA, and she started
to be the accountant for the company.
She was the the head of finance for
Bloom until like a hundred million
dollars. And then probably on year two,
once Bloom really started to get some
traction,
we had a falling out with the our one
team member at the time. And I had I
just needed to call someone that I could
trust. We definitely had like no inbound
of like amazing talent applying to work
at Bloom. And I knew that Bloom could
only scale through influencer marketing
because we just had an understanding of
that because Mari had grown a following
at that point. And so I called my best
friend from high school, Leo, who was
working on Wall Street and was was
running sales in a proper sales room or
boiler room at the time in New York and
we were in Brooklyn. And I was like,
"Dude, or we said to each other, this
sales room that you have would be the
ultimate way to scale an influencer
marketing program within a CPG company
or consumer packaged good company, which
is what Bloom is." And so Leo quit an
incredible opportunity on Wall Street,
joined this now three-person team. We
flew to LA when COVID hit New York City
and we
we took it and ran. And we were working
out of an Airbnb in Santa Monica, one
bedroom, one bathroom. We eventually had
like seven or eight people reporting at
Airbnb as our headquarters, which means
they were using my wife and I's
bathroom. Like there was one bathroom.
And which she [ __ ] hated. And I mean
Black Friday was a huge event for us.
So, that means that the day before Black
Friday is Thanksgiving. We didn't go to
Thanksgiving for 5 years. We had
Thanksgiving as a team in that Airbnb.
We didn't go to Christmas for 5 years
because 4 days later was January 1st,
which was the resolution season Super
Bowl for us. So, like it was just we
just all stayed attached to the hip and
just
just worked as hard as we could
continuing to over-deliver to our
community. But
>> Uh no, yeah. Finish for you to say.
>> No, just in terms of like that
relationship with my wife, the only
reason I had to tell that story is
because it's all I know. Like we've
we've been working side by side
together. I've never had a normal job. I
don't I mean she she worked the front
desk at a gym 4:00 a.m. shift when we
first started Bloom while I was
finishing college, which was [ __ ]
crazy. She was cleaning toilets at
Orange Theory. And
like that's her only experience of
having a real job. So, yeah, this is all
we know. I wouldn't have it any other
way. And you know, as we're starting to
reflect back at the last decade, like
it's it's it's a beautiful thing. Yeah.
>> You were in a fraternity in college,
weren't you?
>> I was in a fraternity in college. She
was in the sorority next door. And I was
obsessed with bodybuilding and fitness
at the time. And so, her bedroom looked
into our kitchen. And I was constantly
cooking, you know, [ __ ] protein
pancakes, uh
you know, what do they call it now? The
ground beef and rice? Like dude dude
stuff? What do they call it?
Dude kibble?
>> Dude kibble?
>> What do they call it? Like
>> That's great.
>> Just just beef and rice. I was
constantly cooking. I was so [ __ ] I
was in I was in a permabalk. Just trying
to get as jacked as possible all
college. I lived in the kitchen. And she
was just always looking at this guy in
the kitchen. And then it turned out we
didn't even know we went to high school
together because she was older than me.
And then uh one Halloween, I just, you
know, I made my move, thank god.
>> Yeah. Did being in a frat in college
have any effect on you from a network
standpoint or even just kind of to where
you are now? And you can be totally
honest and transparent. Like if it
didn't, but like I'm I'm honestly just
kind of curious. I feel like we've
haven't necessarily had a lot of people
that were in like a fraternity whenever
they were in college. So, I kind of want
to get your perspective cuz a lot of
people join it for those purposes.
>> I I would say looking back, if I could
give a 19-20 year-old advice, I would
say really take advantage of that. Some
of my best friends that we still keep in
touch with today who have also become
entrepreneurs in totally different
fields
are people I met in that fraternity. But
I I wouldn't necessarily I don't reflect
on it and think of it as like a pivotal
trajectory-changing moment or reason of
my life. Um I think it was the best time
of my life though to just kind of like
recognize the quote, "The man who has
the most power is a man who has power
over himself." And like if you're living
in a in a in a frat house, you're
surrounded by distractions and vices and
a certain lifestyle. And thank God I was
so into fitness which kind of like made
me stay keep those values and in a world
of chaos around me. So I think that's
where I really established that versus
leaving like the comfort of my home
where I could have those values easily.
And so just just
if I if you can stay focused in a frat
house that's a 24/7 party and there's
you know just a bong on the table at all
times, like you're you're probably going
to be able to stay focused in in
society.
>> What are What are the things you you
touched about earlier is the fact that
you spent the past five or you've spent
five years at Thanksgiving just you and
your wife. And
it's like Q4 Q3 is just like the Super
Bowl for e-commerce. And what is it like
to have like a Black Friday as a
multi-million dollar brand? Like how how
long do you go into planning for that?
What goes into that? Because I mean that
is like you said, it's the Super Bowl.
>> Yeah.
So when we were a 100% D2C business,
like now now it's very different cuz
we're in retail stores. Like the energy
drink business I we might even lose
sales on Black Friday. Like it it may be
a slow day for us. But back in the day
for the first five years, Black Friday
was definitely our Super Bowl. And it
would be a quiet October. Or sorry, not
October, it'd be a quiet November. You
know what I mean? And so it would kind
of get to the point where you were like,
"I don't know if I'm going to make
payroll. I don't know if we're going to
be able to pay rent this month cuz like
this month is sucking." And so you would
need to just hold your breath breath and
clench your ass and hope that that Black
Friday was going to be a big deal. And I
think that's what really taught me a
marketing value that we or marketing
strategy that we still apply very much
today, which is like we call it a
tsunami, which is or or Leo may call it
a a category six hurricane because the
the categories only go up to five.
It's a category six, which is just you
deploy everything you can in one moment.
So, a lot of marketers like to say,
"Okay, this is our 2026 budget or this
is our March budget." And then every day
in all 31 days of March will have like
the same marketing budget peanut butter
spread, right? Evenly spread out. We're
a big fan of go quiet, blast, go quiet,
blast, and just take over the whole
[ __ ] newsfeed, the whole algorithm.
If you're on a doom scroll, you're going
to see Bloom seven times, right? And so,
we I become a huge fan learning from
moments like that of just taking huge
advantage of a 24-hour period. And now,
of course, Black Friday is like, "Yo,
half these companies start the sale two
months before."
>> a it's a whole month now.
>> It's a whole month. It's a whole month
now.
>> a whole month in advance.
>> Yeah, yeah. Yeah, but uh
Yeah, I mean, Black Black Friday was
[ __ ] mega for us. It was probably
probably some of our record days of all
time, you know, four, five, six
million-dollar days where like that was
the whole month's sales though, right?
So, yeah, but I I I I miss those days.
That was always fun.
>> I you know, I guess a couple months ago
we interviewed Don Vultaggio, who's the
owner of Arizona Iced Tea. He's out in
um you know, Long Island is where his
whole thing is. And so, I asked him the
one question I asked him was, "What was
like that one lever that you pulled that
you think it was for you know, Arizona
that made it such a successful company?"
And he said it was the packaging. I want
to ask you the same thing. When you
think about Bloom, Bloom's branding,
what would you say is that one lever
that you really attribute that like just
rapid growth and massive success to? Was
it the marketing, the packaging?
>> Yeah.
>> What is it ultimately that you think
really led to the Bloom success to
become such a successful business?
>> I think about it in a few ways, you
know. First of all, the name of the
brand Bloom.
>> Yeah.
>> Right? Like it's a brand that
I don't think Celsius could go launch a
soda. Right? Like it it's a it's a brand
name that has the platformability. But I
could launch Bloom, baby, tomorrow and
that would make total sense.
>> great point.
>> And you know, like I could I could maybe
I couldn't launch a car, but honestly
maybe I could. And like like with that
name, you know what I mean? And so just
the name itself, what it represents,
which is blooming into your best self,
which is what Bloom is all about for our
community, like I think it's just like a
super powerful five-letter word. And
then on top of that, like
yeah, I think premium packaging is
incredibly important, but I think also
making efficacious formulas that you
don't need to constantly remind your
consumers like what the ingredients are.
So I see a lot of
formulators or entrepreneurs try to make
a product that has some killer
ingredients in it and they're constantly
telling people about these killer
ingredients. And so when we launch our
energy drink and it has a lychee
extract, green tea extract, apple cider
vinegar, prebiotics, it does nowhere on
the front of the label cuz I shouldn't
need to tell you that. You should
experience that.
>> Mhm.
>> So I think just just thinking about that
product experience is really what's most
important. And then there's things where
it's like you don't want to fix what's
not broken. Like this is an energy drink
can. I'm not putting this in a milk
carton. And an Arizona iced tea can is
like the perfect 16 oz or whatever iced
tea can. Like or a soda can is the
traditional Coca-Cola 12-oz soda can.
And it's like don't fix what's not
broken. A cup holder in your car is that
shape for a reason and try to find other
ways to to to
innovate and make your product more
unique outside of normal culture is is
what's really important cuz when you
tell somebody like really
go crazy in one avenue, I think
sometimes they take it too far and they
they end up having a product that comes
off chaotic.
Uh so so being accessible, we I'm not a
fan of selling a premium product. I know
a lot of entrepreneurs today who who who
speak to the to speak to the culture
talk about like self-rich people's
problems.
I'm a fan of volume. I want to see my
product everywhere in the world. I want
to see in trash cans. I want to see in
people's hands. I think everyone in this
country probably has access to $2.50.
Even a homeless person on the street
does. They could buy this energy drink
and I've always just wanted a company
that all of our products are very
accessible.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> How did you go about getting into
retail? Cuz you built a massively
successful D2C brand. How did you go
about transitioning that into retail?
>> So, we
when we were first a 100% Shopify
business and then we decided to go
launch on Amazon because we thought it
was a bigger opportunity, aka giving up
the good for the great. We sacrificed
our whole Shopify business. We sent an
email, text, Instagram post, you know,
even on our website just said go buy on
Amazon. And we quickly became the number
one selling product on Amazon. Like all
our whole company, all we cared about
was where we were ranking on Amazon. And
I knew that those were public rankings
and that retailers would see Amazon as a
barometer for real US demand. And then
finally, I got the pitch with Target
after, you know, we emailed them and
reached out a million times. We got the
pitch. It was just a Zoom call and we
hop on the pitch and we were talking to
a buyer, which is what the decision
makers called at a retailer. And he was
the guy who bought all of the
supplements, all of the OTC products,
which is like Advil and Flonase. And
then he was also buying like the
cigarettes and all of this [ __ ] Like he
didn't care about our product or he
definitely wasn't a customer. And I was
like, "We have this incredible greens
and superfoods product that's taking
over TikTok. Our consumers love it. You
need to have it on your shelves." And
he's like, "Sorry guys, we we just gave
up on superfoods. No one's buying
superfoods anymore. Like we're actually
moving forward over to collagen right
now and that's going to be the next big
thing." And I was like, "Did I say
superfood? This is a gut health
product." And so, which it was and that
was accurate, but we didn't call it that
or at least like externally. This is a
gut health product that is, you know,
has has just like how collagen's an
animal-based superfood, this is the
plant-based superfoods with adaptogens
and ashwagandha and all of the pre and
probiotics and it's it's solving
people's bloating and gut health issues.
And so, I was finally able to convince
him to to us in 600 stores, which I
think is about 25% of Targets. And that
call that let's say that was in July,
after 3 months it was going incredibly.
I was like, "Okay, let's go full chain
before we start January 1st and enter
this next Super Bowl season." And he's
like, "Oh, no, that's not how retail
works. Like you e-com boys think that
this is just like, you know, we make
decisions in 1 month. This is like a 1
year we make a decision every annually,
right?" And I was like, "Okay."
We check the bank account, there's a
million dollars. I was like, "I will
give you a million dollars to put this
product in every Target before January
1st. I don't care if it's on the [ __ ]
floor, if it's in the milk aisle, I
don't care where it is, but I need to be
able to blast on the internet that Bloom
is in every Target nationwide, and not
just in 600 of them and then they need
to go figure out which Target it's in."
And they accepted the transaction. So so
they took the million dollars. It went
in every store, and it was the biggest
It was It was the best investment we
probably could have ever made. So I
think a lot of the time people, when
you're trying to convince somebody, put
your money where your mouth is.
>> How do How do retail contracts
necessarily work, too? I'm also curious
cuz like do you get paid up front? Do
they Do they Do they send you like the
Do they set the the
>> Do you like get residuals or whatnot?
>> Yeah, like how does that work?
>> It could be anywhere from a net 30 to a
net 90, which means you're not getting
paid for 3 months sometimes. So you
really need to have a business with
healthy cash flow, and I mentioned we
were bootstrapped at the time. So like
cash flow was although we were
profitable, we were scaling so fast that
like cash flow just wasn't there. And so
that was definitely like the biggest the
biggest pain point of our business for
the entire first 5 years of it was just
like figuring out how to handle that
cash flow.
>> Yeah, at the beginning you had to
bootstrap for a while, but you mentioned
that you ended up selling a little bit
of a stake in the company to Nutribol,
which is Daz Cunningham, their C4, all
those uh companies right there.
Was that a
a pivotal decision for you in doing
that? Were they a helpful partner in
getting into other businesses or
>> So again, that was purely for the idea
of going after energy drinks. And I saw
Daz, who by the way was also just like
someone who I wanted to have as a
mentor, right? He was a family man. he
was clearly outrageously business
successful, had an incredible company,
and every time I called him he was at
his kids baseball game. And you know,
there was all these other private equity
companies and potential strategic
partners where like I was not seeing
those that alignment in values. And me
being a 28-year-old at the time, I was
like, I need a mentor cuz I've no idea
like what this life is going to throw me
into at this point. And so
>> Did he find you or was it the other
>> You know, there he he
we were starting to network around and
starting to you know, fireside chats and
having open process of this idea of who
would want to make a beverage with us.
And nobody wanted to make a beverage
with us because no one was acquiring
beverage companies. So let me go on
these really quick.
>> You good, bro?
>> You you want me to just do my spinning?
Um
and so that wasn't like a good a good
commercial investment for any private
equity at the time, but we knew it was
the right choice. And so now you see
Alani getting sold to Celsius and you
see Ghost getting sold to Dr. Pepper,
but like that was not happening 3 years
ago. So no one would do that investment
with us, but Dos was as crazy as we were
and he had done the same thing with C4
pre-workout, which I'm sure we all grew
up taking at some point. I know that was
the first pre-workout I ever bought.
>> Same here. You know you know who I would
love for him to have a conversation
with? Mike Repole.
>> You know, it's very funny you say that.
We would love to meet him.
>> Okay, we'll we'll make that happen
easily, man. He he he's a friend of
ours. He's our client. We do all of his
content on social media.
>> to hear a lot I want to hear a lot about
that how this whole thing's monetized.
>> I know I just I just I just like the two
of them because like you know, I always
like to tell the story about Mike
Repole. He's one of the most impressive
people that I've ever met. When we went
out to go do an interview with him at
like 10:00 a.m. we ended up just hashing
it out for 4 hours. And this guy just
does not stop scheming. So I was like
>> The interview was supposed to be at I
think 10:00 10:00 a.m. and we didn't
interview until 2:00.
>> Cuz you were just shooting the [ __ ] with
him.
>> Yeah, he's just grilling us with
questions. We're asking him questions.
>> Yeah, Yeah, It's It's in the files
somewhere, but like
honestly that like 3 and 1/2 hour shoot
the [ __ ] session was way more like that
was priceless.
>> Yeah, he's one of our favorite
interviews we've ever done, but I you
get you get 100 Yeah, I we get 100 to
make that happen.
Yeah, I know I'm sure we could come up
with something something really big
together.
Um
So
>> Hey man, Lance Collins.
>> Who's Lance Collins?
>> Lance Collins, he was his partner body
armor. He sold water. He's doing uh
>> No, anyone who sells water I want to
meet. I got to
>> He He sold I think he sold quarter Dr.
Pepper for 500 million. He did He did He
did a built like five or six companies.
He sold most of them, but yeah, he's in
He's in LA and Repole is in Florida, so
we'll make that happen.
>> it takes a different beast to catch
lightning in a bottle more than once.
Yeah, it's one thing to do it once, but
someone who when you hear a serial
entrepreneur do that three, four, five
times different beast. But this is a
great segue right here because most
beverage brands fail. It's even when you
think about ones that are led and
partnered with these like big
influencers behind them, why is that?
>> You know
I think people think that there's a
playbook. And everyone in today's
society is obsessed with this idea of
like having a prescription. And it's
like what is the prescription to get in
shape? What is the prescription to start
a business? And that's why we all go to
college. How do I get the best job that
I can? How do I perform in high school
to get to the best college which leads
to this next thing? And it's like we
think we've come up with this formula,
but unfortunately these formulas are
generally antiquated especially with how
fast culture is changing today. And so
again with first principle thinking and
people who have never done it before, I
think that's why we won is because we
actually most of our team had zero
beverage experience. We had brand
experience and we knew our community
like we know our [ __ ] family. And so
when you when you incept a company which
of course this beverage looks like it's
a two-year overnight success, but as you
were saying it's actually a 10-year
overnight success. And so all we really
did was just plug this into all of the
systems that we've mastered and
accumulated over the eight years prior
to launching this beverage. And
I I think that that's something that you
can't buy. And it's something that you
definitely can't rush. So, when I see
these I think one of the biggest
blessings of Bloom is that we were
bootstrapped and we had to make every
[ __ ] dollar count when we would
market and we couldn't rush it because
we just didn't have the money. So, we
had to build everything in-house. I
couldn't afford to pay the best agencies
that all of these competitors who are
raising all this money would write the
biggest checks to. So, we were like, we
need to get real scrappy and figure out
how to do this better for 10% of the
price. And so, we ended up creating a
system that gets a Super Bowl ad, if not
two or three, worth of views every
single month for a fraction of the price
of a Super Bowl ad, right? So, it's like
how how do you how do you get that
creative? You can only do that when you
don't have a choice.
>> Yeah. When when you see, right, cuz
undoubtedly the energy drink business
and even just the supplement companies
in general, it's an extremely
competitive space.
What is your mindset kind of in that
moment when you see that and like how do
you kind of instill in your team like
this is how we're going to stand out
from the competition? Is there any like
specific angle that you really try and
go towards?
>> I mean, the the the biggest unlock for
us was, you know, first of all, when we
launched this beverage, all of those
suits that you mentioned, all of these
big corporations that like, you know,
think they have all of this data on how
to launch a beverage, they were like,
"Okay, female energy drink, it has to be
white." White Claw, Celsius, you know,
insert all of the female beverages.
Like, if your can is not white, a woman
won't buy it. And we were like, "It's
going to be purple." And they were like,
"You're out of your mind. No way. We
cannot sign up for that." And then, of
course, it ended up being purple, ended
up being a huge hit. And it's like, we
just you you need to think for yourself.
And normally, if it's in the data and
the data's pointing towards something,
you should really ask yourself like, "Is
this
If it's in the data, it's probably too
late to to to follow the data, right?
You need to create the data with with
your decisions. And you need to pivot
fast. This is our 250th product.
Five three of our products have made up
85% of our revenue, right? So, it's not
like we're like just, you know, three
for three huge hits, greens powder,
soda, energy drink. But, I would say the
biggest unlock for us is thinking about
who our avatar is, who our community is,
who our consumer is, and thinking
how did they what what did they grow up
with?
Right? Cuz when you were growing up and
you were drinking a Shirley Temple, when
you were growing up or you were drinking
and you were drinking apple juice, you
probably did not have a frown on your
face. Like that was associated with like
incredible nostalgia or like when you
were growing up like you were happy as
[ __ ] when you got a Shirley Temple.
>> Yeah.
>> Right? So it's like how do I take these
these these current things that we're
consuming in our adult life and remind
you of the happiest times of your life
>> which goes back to the consumer
experience.
>> But how how difficult is it to pivot and
make those adjustments, especially after
you launch something in the food and
beverage space? Because another person
who, I don't know if you met him yet,
again he lives in Austin is Daniel
Lubetzky, founder of KIND Bar.
>> oh killer.
>> And and and have you met him before?
>> not.
>> to you got to we got to make that intro
happen. I'm happy to, man, cuz cuz I
mean you you're crushing it and these
people would love to meet you as well.
And but anyways, he was talking about on
our podcast that if you have like a
software company like a Facebook, if you
test a new feature and it bombs and
people don't like it, it's very easy to
pivot from that. But in like the food
and beverage space, it's incredibly
difficult cuz it's this is a prod like a
product that people are consuming, that
they're eating, that they're drinking.
So how have you kind of balanced like
the risk with launching something that's
like, man, if this doesn't hit, like,
you know, and not that you can't
recover, but it may be a little bit more
difficult to pivot than it was like a
software company.
>> It's it's a big complex question and
I'll try to give you the simplest answer
that comes to mind, which is our entire
company is pretty much the Bloom girl.
So we have 100 people who are like real
Bloom consumers. You know, there's like
four guys on our team at this point and
they love our products. And they shop at
Target and they are like that that that
consumer that we are they're our avatar,
right? And so the first stage of just
testing a product or incubating a
product or putting something into R&D is
like, do you guys think this is a good
idea?
I'm not the consumer. And by the way,
our team and my wife is incredible
saying no. They say no to 19 out of 20
of our ideas.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> You need that. You can't have yes men
around.
>> Cuz I have No, you cannot have yes men.
You cannot have yes men. And it's like I
don't know what what influencers decide.
I know what We know how to create an
influencer program, but like I have no
idea who who our women are following,
right? So, it's like delegating that
decision-making where where you you know
we need to go after something. You need
know you need to go down an avenue, but
like I don't know what Did you guys grow
up drinking Shirley Temple? Cuz my wife
grew up in the UK and she doesn't even
know what that is. Like are you
>> I know. Of course.
>> But like so so, you know, the first the
first people I check with is the 99
women on our team who are real Blume
consumers, which is like the most
incredible case study. And they They are
the first ones to be like, "Yo, that's a
horrible idea, Greg. Go back to your
office." Like you know, so
>> So, for sure.
>> You literally have your entire consumer
base just in the office, right there.
>> It's the best. And they're they're from
around the whole country, right? Cuz
they they We've been blessed and so many
of them have moved Austin just to take
on the opportunity to work with us. And
it's it's our opportunity if anything,
but yeah, just having like this this
melting pot of an organization ranging
from interns in their late teens to, you
know, moms and and and you know, older
female professionals to be able to
contribute to all those ideas.
>> I I I see your willingness to pivot
throughout your journey as a huge key to
like why you guys have been successful.
Uh and I think like even, you know,
going back to maybe like COVID for say.
Like we always like to talk about hey,
how could you survive like maybe like a
pandemic or recession or things like
that? And for you guys, it was like you
guys were so all in on influencer
marketing, Tik Tok, and then of course
eventually like now Tik Tok shop has
come out. It seems like you guys have
been ahead of that. How have you been
able to stay on top of like those not
not necessarily trends, but like where
the culture in the market and these new
tools that are out that they're going,
how can other entrepreneurs, I guess, be
on top of that in order to make the
necessary pivots for their business?
>> And before you answer that question, how
many views would you say Blume has done
across social media?
>> 100 billion?
What? 50 billion?
30?
Between 30 and 50 billion.
>> So so you got 30 to 50 billion views.
>> For sure. I mean, hopefully most of them
have been in America. You know, TikTok
is a little crazy sometimes.
>> I love it.
>> But someone in Sudan with a Bloom can.
>> Yeah, or they want a Bloom can.
>> Yeah, they probably go pretty viral.
Yeah.
>> We're launching in some new countries
right now. It's like UK, Korea, all over
Europe, Canada, and in Mexico and it's
selling great cuz they've just seen the
TikToks over the years and we haven't
been available there.
>> Hey, can I just give a first This is my
first ever try of a Bloom?
>> Normally I don't even watch these. It
stresses me out too much.
>> I I I tried it just a second ago. And
I'll just say this.
>> Is gas out?
>> It was great.
>> I'm glad to hear
>> Like like it genuinely did taste like
crisp apple.
>> Yeah.
>> It it looks like a kid in a candy store,
right? So look.
>> I like that.
>> We we might need more of these on on the
hard knocks out.
>> Hey hey hey, you know, he just gave you
your best ad creator for the next week.
>> Dude, you brought up you brought up
something that's another and I'm coming
into this podcast a little fired up.
We've had a hell of a morning. But
another thing that kind of frustrates me
in in some of the, you know, culture
society that I see today, especially in
entrepreneurship, is like they think
changing your mind makes you a
hypocrite. And that doesn't make you a
hypocrite. That means that you just have
now have new data to think differently.
And I think you need to
constantly have such an open mind about
your beliefs. And I'll give you an
example. Like we put
I don't know how much money, but let's
just say we put a million dollars into
R&D-ing a soda that had 5 g of protein.
And it was an incredible product. It
tasted great. Because of the protein, we
probably would have had to charge
$3 for a can of soda, which is pretty
significant cuz it was high quality whey
isolate. And we rode this thing to the
moon in terms of getting our strategic
partners aligned with it, getting our
top retailers aligned with it. and we
were going to launch the [ __ ] out of
this product this summer. And
some faster, more nimble, smaller
companies beat us to the opportunity,
thank god,
and launched these protein sodas in
retailers, and they all [ __ ] flopped.
And
I needed to pull the plug. And that was
that was a lot of a lot It was a hit to
my pride, right? Because it was like I I
wanted my decision to be this home run,
but the data had changed or the the
consumer sentiment and my social
listening had changed, and I needed to
call all of our partners and say, "This
would actually be a bad idea. We need to
pull the And the response was actually
At first, it was like, "No one's ever
pulled the plug this late this late in
the stage. Like, what are you talking
about? That's not how we do business.
Like, we need to launch this product." I
was like,
"I currently have a reputation that you
can't buy. People know that when we
launch a product, it's going to [ __ ]
work. Our consumers know that when they
buy a product, they're going to love it,
and I'm not taking that hit on my
resume. So, we're pulling the plug, and
I'm going to work on something that's
going to be even bigger than this." And
so,
I think just constantly trying to
re-trends upwards and downwards and
being open to changing your mind is
crucial, but I would also say as new
entrepreneurs,
this last February, we launched a
Valentine's Day edition of our energy
drink.
Hoping into cultural moments, which are
generally white spaces in legacy
categories, could be the biggest
opportunity that an entrepreneur has.
So, I see a lot of entrepreneurs launch
on TikTok Shop, launch their Amazon,
launch their Shopify store, and they
have a very vanilla, evergreen product
that's great for year-round. But, it's
like, "Dude, if if the new Drake album
just dropped, and he has a Michael
Jackson glove, and it's all bedazzled
out on the front of the cover, and
you're a small, nimble company that can
move fast, within 1 week, you should
have a bedazzled product on TikTok
Shop." I can't move that fast anymore.
You know, that would We're moving a
cruise ship at this point. But, like,
when you're a small, nimble company,
like, hopping on those short-term trends
is how you win. Like, when COVID hit, we
hop we Oh, you're baking at home now
because it's COVID and you're locked in
your house? Well, bake with our protein.
And we turned into a [ __ ] protein
company overnight and we were selling
protein so people could bake at home.
So, I think of these like huge cultural
interventions that happened over the
last five years, whether that was COVID
hitting, the launch of TikTok, which was
some random dancing app, right? And then
now it's become a huge pillar of our
business it's our it's all of us. And
this you know, the third would probably
be GLP-1s, like hopping on that trend
before the Nestles and Red Bulls and
Coca-Colas of the world can hop on that
trend. Or of course, TikTok shop. Like
and so those are the huge ones that now
because of the size of the our business,
we need to hop on those as fast as we
can. But if you're a small business,
it's like the next time there's a Taylor
Swift album and she has a you know, a a
a strawberry sherbet on the front of the
thing or whatever it may be, you better
have a strawberry sherbet product.
>> You just gave I think in my opinion some
of the absolute best advice that you
could give to an especially if we're
talking like content creators here,
people trying to create content that
actually performs well. Is we actually
got this acronym from Gary V. One of my
favorite acronyms ever is PAC and this
is from him. Platform, algorithm,
culture. Platform, you got to be
diversified on every platform,
Instagram, TikTok, Facebook, YouTube.
Algorithm, what are the algorithms
pushing? But the C is the most important
one which is culture. Lean into what is
like trending, what's going on. Like if
it's a relevant news event, if you're a
beverage brand or you know, the like a a
death of a of a celebrity figure. Like
those types of things, like if you want
to catch steam on your content, it's
like leaning into that culture aspect
right there. What I wanted to kind of
ask about was how do you go about
creating content that actually converts?
Or are you more of a fan of like
integrating it so casually into, you
know, content that is um like part of
every like like day in the lives
perhaps, right? That may work well. Like
I'm curious in your in your space, how
do you create cuz I mean you've done
billions of views, right? Tens of
millions of views. What do you see as
the content that actually converts the
best?
>> Again, it's what's currently performing
on the algorithm. Like very well said.
>> Is it a type of content though or
>> I would, you know,
we delegate content and this is the
biggest mistake that I see people trying
to do in influencer marketing do is we
delegate the actual content production
and ideation to the content creator.
That is their full-time job, generally
speaking. Like when we give somebody a
content brief, it's like it's a Crisp
Apple energy drink. Don't say anything
that's like off-brand, obviously, or
like something that we don't agree with
on a value level, but it's like you're
the expert at this. Take that home.
>> the tools that we use across the School
of Hard Knocks is Opus Clip and they
recently launched a new feature called
Agent Opus, which essentially allows you
to take raw audio, a simple prompt, a
simple script, you give it to Agent Opus
and it creates content for you that is
ready to post across social media.
Short-form content ready to post that
doesn't look like generated AI garbage.
You can literally give it a simple
script. For example, James from the
School of Hard Knocks drinking an energy
drink. So guys, listen very carefully.
You hear this from the most successful
creators turned entrepreneurs in today's
world. If you can master this skill of
getting attention, of creating content
for your business, you will never go
broke. You will always find success in
what you're doing. Using Opus Clip and
Agent Opus for your business today can
completely change the game for you and
your company. So to get access now and
to begin using Agent Opus today, all you
have to do is go down, click the link in
the description of this video, and get
started today. Now with that being said,
let's get back to the interview.
>> So in other words, you you let the
creators create.
>> Let the creators create and your brief,
first of all, no one's going to read
your [ __ ] paragraph.
>> There's such There's such a problem with
that, I will just say. Especially coming
from the creators' point of view. Like
we work with a ton of great brands. Now
we're fortunate in a position to where
like, "Hey, like we we have a proven
concept to what's going to work." But
especially early on is they want to
dictate what the content should look
like. And it's like, "Look, we're
generating hundreds of millions of views
every single month. Like we'll have a
natural way and a way that speaks our
audience's language in a way to
integrate this. And I just want to
commend that of like and that's also
part of the reason of why you guys are
probably so successful is because you
let people who are great at what they do
continue to do that.
>> That's all that that's all that this
game is. Like we were talking about
strategic partners, it's the same thing
with your content creators. They're your
partner of creating content for your
brand. I I think, you know, another just
tidbit on influencer marketing,
I think it's there's a spectrum. And
it's not one side's bad or good. There's
reach and there's validity. And so
you're sometimes going to have content
that you're just trying to get a super
viral video and hope that your can is in
that video. Like we're the we were the
first brands to hop on [ __ ] mukbangs.
>> Kind of had kind of just kind of had
some good product placement.
>> Product placement. And hopefully you get
a cheap amount of [ __ ] ton of views. But
then there's validity, which would be
like someone who has an incredible
personal brand. Nobody knew what Bloom
was. How do we halo their brand equity
into Bloom's brand equity? That would be
validity, right? And so it's like
constantly making sure that your whole
influencer marketing, or really your
brand your all of your marketing is
following is is is has a healthy
uh layout on that spectrum, right? So I
see a ton of brands go crazy or 100%
into TikTok shop, which is purely a
conversion funnel. And you're not
building a brand that way. I don't care
if you do $100 this year, next year
you're not going to because you're not
building a brand. But it's all it's
still is a necessary piece of any
business trying to quickly scale today.
But then you also need to pair that
aggressively with validity and real
brand building moments. The same thing
happens with brands that get a little
too obsessed with Facebook ads. You
know, you see these brands that have
completely scaled with Facebook ads.
And when they go launch in a retailer
and they follow the Bloom playbook and
they launch in Target and they get this
huge launch and it flops. And they're
like, how could this flop if we're doing
$100 on a Shopify store? It's because
they never actually built a brand. They
just figured out how to create the most
impulsive arbitrage of a Facebook ad to
convince you to buy the product once,
right? So
that's that's that's how I think about
marketing overall is like this spectrum
of validity and reach.
>> That was just a banger.
Ge- genuinely. I'm just I'm just
thinking like my my head's kind of
turning on the fence sense of like what
kind of goes into building that brand
like you say it's cuz it seems like
there's a certain sense of like
integrating to people's lives, becoming
a part of the culture, and then there's
also that back end sense of it.
How did where did that kind of come from
for you because like you said, it's not
like you worked at a major company
to learn this. You You went through
college, you necessarily wasn't studying
for this. Like how did how did this kind
of come about learning this? Was it did
you model someone else's playbook,
another brand's playbook, and you kind
of got these ideas for your own or or
what did that kind of look like for you?
>> We had such a a a raw, visceral, instant
feedback loop of brand building through
our whole
our whole focus for the first 3 years
was growing Mari's following. So,
building a personal brand is the rawest
form of entrepreneurship. It is the
rawest form of building a brand, and if
you can build a strong community around
a personal brand, which Mari is the best
at,
then building a consumer packaged goods
brand is easy. Anyone might click
follow. Anyone might buy your product
once, but to keep them following, to
keep them engaging, to keep on buying
your product, retention is really what a
brand in it is, and you get that through
again over-delivering on value. Like we
were we were with some of the first
brands to launch just just podcasts. You
know, Mari would hop on podcasts with
neurosurgeons and the the top wellness
experts around the world that had
nothing to do with Bloom, but their
association, their validity, haloed into
the Bloom brand and into her personal
brand where people were like, "Oh, like
I I I now will give this product a shot
cuz I had not tried it. I didn't know if
it was worthy of me giving my my my
hard-earned dollars for, but because of
this, you know, haloed validity from
someone that I really do respect, I will
try this product. And then it goes back,
you know, that it all ends with it's all
product. So,
>> one of the things I I want to touch on
there as well is cuz like you it started
out with an influencer, someone who had
a following, who had trust. At what
point should an entrepreneur who's maybe
launching their brand or in your case
who has a trusted figure transition from
hey, this is Mari
>> Yeah.
>> to this is Bloom and the and the brand
becomes bigger than the creator.
>> That's a great question. You know, it's
it was very intentional to not call this
company Mari Supplements.
Uh we we knew that that would be a key
man risk. We also knew that and I feel
like this is more so in the in in the in
the female culture, but a lot of women
didn't want to necessarily like shout
from the rooftops about this other
woman's product, right? And there was
actually a little bit of like a lowbrow
culture of this idea of Mari launching
her own brand because everyone at the
time just wanted to sign, shout out to
Andy Frisella, everyone just wanted to
sign the First Form contract, everyone
wanted to sign the Gymshark contract and
that was the big flex of building your
personal brand back then. And we were
like, "No, we're going to make our own
company." And people were like, "Who do
you think you are?" And there was you
know, I I have I have I have
permanently play you know, post-it notes
in my head of people saying like random
influencers brand or random Instagram
company. And so that's where I got
obsessed with the validity, but
your question is like when is it time to
monetize your platform?
>> Well, it was more like when Oh, sorry,
sorry. When when is it time to to try to
create something? I think
>> once you do start to monetize, like you
need to be trying your best to think
two, three, four, five 10 years out and
it's like is this brand going to be have
a lower ceiling with only my personal
name attached to it?
Right?
>> Yeah.
At this point now, now that you guys are
selling millions of cans a week, you
know, you guys are you guys are printing
at this point, is there a focus on
trying to continue and own the different
verticals? And what I mean by that is
like, you know, within your business
like there's a lot of expenses in in
terms of like the manufacturing and
whatnot and
the cans and like all there's all these
little things. Is that kind of a focus
for you now is kind of looking like how
can we kind of start to own the
different verticals to kind of bring
everything to where you can like kind of
a little bit of that vertical
integration. Is that something that
you're at all focused on?
>> And so I just want to add on to that. It
is like is it is it going to different
verticals or is it just expanding what
you already have in just more areas?
>> I would say there's zero focus on that.
Uh I would I know that that's definitely
a different playbook that people could
use and people have built incredible
operations through that playbook. I have
I am passionate about creating a job
that you find fun. And if you can enjoy
the the the arena enjoy the mission more
than your competitors, you will beat
them. It might not be instant, but you
will eventually beat them because they
will wear out. I would not enjoy
building out a logistics company. I
would not enjoy building out a
manufacturing hub. And the reality is is
the multi multi billion dollar companies
like Monster, they're not vertically
integrated. It's not like that that is
not a necessary piece of the playbook.
It's a playbook, but it's not necessary.
And yeah, I I I personally have no
passion around that. I'm at the point of
my career where I can decide what I want
to do and I don't think that I would
provide any more value to our consumer
by doing that.
>> I love that. I think that's a really
interesting philosophy, honestly.
>> Greg, you've been building Bloom for the
last 5 years.
>> Yeah.
>> If you were able to go back and
obviously we when we try to look at it
things we wouldn't want to change
anything about our journey because it
got us exactly to this moment where we
are today. But if there was one thing
that if you were to go back to when you
first started Bloom that you and your
wife you were able to go and tell your
tell yourselves
>> Yeah.
>> what would that be?
>> You know, we were we were
we were very young.
Some would say we still are and like I
just did not have the
the mental infrastructure built at the
time to handle these scenarios, right?
So, there was a lot of situations where
and it's it's romanticized in today's
culture with like monk mode and locking
in. And it's like, "Sure, but have you
ever locked in in monk mode for 7 years
straight?" It's like and then you're
like start you know you find you look
back and you're like, "I probably could
have [ __ ] called my mom more often. I
probably could have, you know, not been
so angry
for so much all the time." And so, just
like looking back and realizing that
absolutism isn't nece- It's easier to
not drink than it is to have two drinks.
It's easier to have a small amount of
carbohydrates instead of having or it's
easier to have zero carbs than to have a
little bit of pasta, right? And I think
the same thing about entrepreneurship.
And it's it's easier to be good than
great is one of my favorite Sorry, it's
easier to be great than good is one of
my favorite quotes. And it's true. Like
I've met some of the best entrepreneurs
who are 10 out of 10 business person,
but they're a they're a [ __ ] father,
they're a [ __ ] son, they're a [ __ ]
husband. And it's like realizing that
the easier route is absolutism, but it's
it's it's not the actual route to a
fulfilling and balanced life. Yeah.
>> One of the things that you said that
when you were going to retail is that
like cash flow
>> Yeah.
>> can get really interesting sometimes
because it's like, you know, you're
shipping hundreds of units, thousands of
units to different stores.
Was there ever a moment within the
company that almost was it an event was
it Excuse me. Was there ever an event
that almost killed the company?
>> Yeah. So, the year was 2023.
We were
beginning to look at getting a strategic
partners for the first time to to
onboard for this beverage opportunity.
And most of our business was relying on
one sales channel.
And a majority of our business was one
sales channel. And
we lost that sales channel. And we were
living in Venice Beach, we had a
headquarters there. We now have a
smaller one because our large one is in
Austin, and this is easily the most
stressful 2-3 months of my life.
I'm driving home from the office, uh
probably 8:00 p.m.
I'm in my I'm in my dream car. I'm in a
McLaren 720S. Like I I we did the whole
we did the whole uh you know, rich
thing.
I had the McLaren 720S. I'm in my dream
car. It was my only car. And I'm driving
home, [ __ ] pulling my hair out,
stressed for the you know, seventh week
in a row. I'm at a red light. To my
right at the red light is
a shitbox car, Domino's delivery sign on
the top, weed smoke billowing out, music
blasting, and he's having the time of
his life [ __ ] delivering pizzas. And
I was just like, what am what am I doing
wrong here? Like how why am I not happy
for for this long of a period of time?
It's fine for a day or two, right? But
for this long of a period of time like
I'm in total misery, and this was
supposed to be like my dream. And so,
at that point forward, I realized like I
need to create a business that is not
that fragile. That is that is that is
generation proof. And so, that led to us
creating a highly
a very aggressively distributed diverse
diverse but diversely distributed brand,
which is now in 70,000 retail doors, cuz
I didn't want to rely on one.
So,
I I I we put ourselves in that
vulnerable position, and I I guess I
deserved to be in that situation. I'm
glad I learned it earlier on in my
career. But, yeah, I mean, we were
probably days away from layoffs.
>> Yeah. I I love the fact that you talk
about too in your content that money
without freedom is just paper.
>> Dude, yeah. I'm Listen, I have seen some
very wealthy people that have a boss.
And it's like, what's Dude, what is it?
Wednesday afternoon? And I'm we're here
right now. Like that's what it's all I
mean, I know you guys are working, but
I'm [ __ ] around with you. I just want
to hang out with you guys.
And you know, Leo, the president of
Bloom, my best friend, he's with me. Uh
you know, and it's it's uh,
that's and JJ's my homie. Um,
but like that's that's what it's all
about. Um, you know, creating a life of
true freedom. And I think if you're ever
presented with a with an option that
long-term gives you more money but less
freedom, then you're just putting
yourself in handcuffs. You're putting
putting shackles on yourself. And that's
not the answer to uh,
that's not the point of
entrepreneurship. And and another thing
that you reminded me of of entrepreneurs
who get like stuck on one idea is I've
seen like the best entrepreneurs
find themselves in a situation where
they're in shackles, but I've seen the
best entrepreneurs ruin themselves
because they have too much pride.
And you know, maybe they sign that they
sign that term sheet that gives them the
best enterprise value, but they lose
their freedom because they want everyone
to know how high their enterprise value
was. No one gives a [ __ ] Or
people who like refuse to give up on an
idea, which I see as giving up the good
for the great. I have a very like glass
half full way of looking at at at at
fail failed things, the 223 products
that have failed for us. I love that.
You move on quickly and you learn
quickly from those failures. And I've
seen too many entrepreneurs, men and
women,
get destroyed in this in this space
because they have too much pride.
>> You recently had a son.
>> Yeah, I recently had a son. His name is
Kai. He's
He's 6 months old and he's huge.
>> Yeah.
>> And I want to just kind of ask what what
has that been like for you recently,
right? Like you've been building this
company for a couple years. Obviously,
you have a wife as well. Got a family.
How are you kind of balancing everything
right now cuz your company's exploding,
you know, you got the family. What has
life been like for you on that side of
things?
>> Dude, it's been a it's been an emotional
emotional roller coaster because it's
like I've never
I've never had this these this this new
thing that I care about so much I love
so much. And in the best way it's been
I I again, absolutism is is is the
easiest route to to operate in this
arena that we're in. And it's like to
now have this thing that I just like
love so much has been very interesting
trying to be this like fired up
aggressive competitor in the space and
then go home and and and want and want
to spend present time with him.
>> think that balance helps you though?
>> I I I can't act like I've mastered it.
And you know I'm working towards it and
I'm sure I'll always be working towards
being better at it, but um it's it's
been
it's been interesting. You know, 6
months in I've definitely made a ton of
progress and and it's it's
I'm sure most people would say I'm doing
a great job at it, but I know I could be
better at it and uh
I don't know. It's yeah, it's it's it's
been it's been amazing. And it's one of
the reasons I started a personal brand.
It's one of the reasons why I started
making videos like the lessons that I've
learned in my 20s. It's like I want to
kind of make these videos for my son.
One of my favorite books is John D.
Rockefeller's letters to his son. And
it's like damn, if one day I could write
a book, I would just want it to be like
all of the wisdom that I could pass down
to my son so that he doesn't need to
learn the same mistakes that I made. I
mean that's the best thing I could pass
down to him. [ __ ] any money, right? It's
going to be the the and lessons that I
could pass down to him. So that's kind
of what what it's all about now.
>> Love it.
Well, Greg, we like to end these
podcasts off with two questions for our
guest, man. I'll I'll start and then
Jack will end us off here. So how old
are you today?
>> 31.
>> 31. Greg, if if me and you if all of us
were to die tomorrow, but you could
leave one more message with the younger
generation watching right now, what
would that be?
>> Just don't
If I could leave one message, it would
be this is this is the greatest
opportunity to go after your dreams that
has ever existed on the planet. You
know, it's it's an easy easy world that
we live in. We frankly have very few
excu- excuses to not be happy. We could
get any the most delicious food to our
doorstep in 30 seconds. You know,
medical care is is down the street. Um
you know, entertainment and and and
dopamine hits are at our disposal with
our thumb. And it's like
it's it's it's it's also a time where
choosing your discomfort and going after
challenges and goals is more important
than ever and it's it's almost like it's
not just the opportunity. It's like I
think it's all of our
it's all the the reason that we're here
is to is to take advantage of this this
this world this arena that we're in.
>> And Greg, you know, you built incredible
company,
family man,
but
how do you want to be remembered?
>> I want to be remembered as you know, I I
very intentionally started to document
this process of building Bloom
before before a potential exit or before
it's all said and done. And I know we
see a lot of entrepreneurs who try to
sell tell a story afterwards and as an
entrepreneur looking for mentors online,
it's just it just doesn't hit the same
when it when it when it's afterwards and
it's it's not truly the way to pass down
the baton to the next generation. And so
I want to be remembered as like the guy
who who who tried to
I don't know if it's fueled by like my
frustration with the academia world and
like you know, the failure that I feel
like that applied on me, but it's like I
just know there must be like a better
way for all of us all of the people that
have achieved great things and I think
I'm on my way there. I don't think I've
done it yet, but when I'm on my way
there, if I can like teach the lessons
on the way, that'd be a hell of a
legacy.
>> Well, Greg, this was an excellent
episode, my friend. Cool, dude. Just
straight tactical business advice, my
man. Thank you so much for being with us
today, man. We really really appreciate
that. For everybody that's watching
right now, be sure to like and subscribe
for amazing content coming every week to
the School of Hard Knocks podcast. We're
bringing you the biggest eight, nine,
and 10-figure entrepreneurs in the
entire world for you to learn directly
from them on how they got to where they
were. We're going to put all the links
down to Greg's social media in the
description and be sure that if you're
at your next gas station, your local
grocery store, you got to pick up a
Bloom today. Lastly, we're going to put
the link down in the description to the
School of Mentors, which is the number
one entrepreneur community in the entire
world where every single week we host
live calls with the eight, nine, and
10-figure entrepreneurs that we
interview on this channel. The link's
down in the description. We can't wait
to see you on the inside. With that
being said, we'll see you in the next
episode.