Robert Croak, the founder of the global
brand Silly Bandz. You sold Silly Bandz
in how many stores? No idea. 10,000s.
Oh, yeah, hundreds of thousands. Yeah,
yeah, if you want to know if a partner
is a good fit, if it's somebody that's
going to be in a management role or a
partner role, I always like to take them
golfing and then to dinner. Because if
their etiquette on the golf course is
bad, they're generally going to be that
way in life.
>> Everyone loves to talk about the $7
latte. Some people are like, go have
your $7 latte, it's not going to make a
difference, or you should avoid it.
>> For every dollar you waste and you don't
invest in, let's say, your early 20s,
you're 22 or 23 years old, that $1 can
turn into
dollars in retirement. Some people may
look at you and say, well, it's easy for
you to launch a product and go into
retail because you already have all the
connections and you've done it before.
But, I would imagine it didn't start out
that way.
>> I have failed way more times than I've
succeeded, but people only count the
successes. And all of the failures that
I've had generally laid the groundwork
for me to be so good at what I do now.
Robert, if tomorrow was all said and
done, how would you want to be
remembered? Oh.
What's going on, everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James. I'm here with Jack and Josh,
and we have a phenomenal guest for you
all today. We are out in Tampa, Florida
with Robert Croak, the founder of the
global brand Silly Bandz. But, he's also
not just a business builder. I mean,
this guy is a wealth expert, okay? I
mean, we were talking before the podcast
and I'm just like soaking up all the
knowledge and information that this guy
has, man. So, this is about to be a
master class on all things business and
wealth building. First of all, Robert,
great to be here with you today, my
friend. Thanks for coming. I appreciate
you guys coming. I wish it was 80 and
sunny like normal, but uh we'll get
through it. It's a little chilly, but I
was in New York yesterday and it is way
better here, for sure. Absolutely. Where
I want to get things started, man, is I
want you to take us back to the moment
when Silly Bandz was just a weird idea,
right? Before the billions of bands,
before the global craze, right? What was
it that you noticed that everyone else
ignored, right? Why did you trust your
instinct to move as fast as the way you
did in building that company?
Yeah, it started with, if everyone
remembers the Livestrong bracelets,
those were a big phenomenon back in like
2002, 3, 4, and we did really well with
those because we were one of the biggest
companies in the world that provided
those for charities and other companies
besides the Livestrong Foundation. So,
that was kind of dying off a little bit,
but still doing pretty well. It was
doing a few million few million dollars
a year,
and then I was at a show in China, and I
was looking at these really small shaped
rubber bands. I saw it, I took a sample.
I still have that sample today. I don't
know what it's worth. And um and I was
like, "Man, these would be so dope if
they were bigger and thicker and could
be worn as bracelets and tradeable." And
that's how it all started, you know? And
everyone always sees the success stories
and they think it's just this meteoric
rise to the top, and it was not that at
all. We launched a website. We, you
know, got up and running. We only had
four cases. We had four styles when we
launched. That was it. And uh and we
launched, and you know, they collected
dust for a while, you know? And it
started to build a little momentum. That
was back in the Facebook days when you
could check the heat map on Facebook,
and it started to go a little bit
bigger, a little bit bigger, and then it
tipped into retail on top of our
website, and that was when life changed
pretty dramatically. We went from 17
employees in the beginning of Silly
Bandz to over 3,200 worldwide employees
to keep up with the demand. And uh and
it was wild times because, you know, I
remember when it first really started
getting busy, I'm like, "This is
incredible." And at that time, we were
doing like
200 cases a week, and I was like, "This
is really dope." Because inside each
case was 576 packs of Silly Bandz. So,
it's a pretty big number. And one of the
workers that worked in the shipping
department, he came up to me and goes,
"At this pace right now, I calculate
we're going to be at 1,000 cases a
week." And I'm like, "There's no world
we're going to sell 1,000 cases a week."
And 6 months later, we were at like
3,200 cases a week of volume, which
doesn't sound like a lot to some people,
but you have to remember there was 576
individual units in each case. And the
rest is history. It went on to be in I
think we were in 45 countries, you know,
hundreds of millions of dollars. And it
was an incredible ride and you know,
everyone always says, "Well, how did you
handle it?" You don't. So, anyone out
there that's building a brand, whether
you're new or you're scaling right now,
don't worry about making mistakes.
Everyone leaves money on the table
because it's easy for wealthy people
that exit companies to say that it was
all rainbows and unicorns when it
happened, but it's just not true.
>> I I'm just curious, like, how do you
scale up that much infrastructure that
fast? Cuz I mean, you're going from,
okay, a couple cases to 20 cases to 100
cases. How do you scale logistically
with just a business that's booming?
Yeah, I always tell the story. Two
parts.
>> [clears throat]
>> Part number one is we ran out of space
in my buildings. So, I went to the
building behind me and I said, "Hey, you
have all this extra space. Um can I rent
this side of your warehouse? I need it."
And they're like, "Yeah, when do you
need it?" And I'm like, "Today. Like,
literally as soon as possible." So, we
went through negotiations, we came to an
agreement, and then the husband, who was
part of the team, it was a family-owned
business, he said, "No, I don't want
them in my building."
So, I was like, "What am I going to do?
It's right behind my current buildings.
I need this building." So, I went
online, found out who owned the
building, reached out to the guy, got a
hold of him a day or two later. He's
like, "Yeah, they're 10 months behind in
their rent. If you want the building,
make me an offer." I made him a cash
offer, 3 days later I had the keys, I
went in and I said, "Sorry, folks,
you've got 30 days to get out and we
started putting everything in that
building.
But there's a really crazy story and a
lot of your audience might be too young,
but Katie Couric reached out and her
team and they wanted to interview me
about this madness around Silly Bandz.
And it was one of the funniest days and
the police showed up and fire trucks
showed up. We were so busy with all the
buildings that I had someone go before
we opened that day and buy a bunch of
tables from OfficeMax, the white fold
out tables.
And we had "Hello, my name is" stickers
and I did a Facebook post and said we
need 50 people, show up at 8:00 a.m.
We're going to be hiring today and I
walked through the line while the film
crews were filming me and I literally
just chose people by a handshake and a
quick set hello and hired people on the
spot. And a few hours later the police
and fire trucks showed up because we had
the whole alley filled with semis of
Silly Bandz going in and out, but also
people picking and packing and building
boxes outdoors because we had no more
room. I know that you mentioned that you
had Katie Couric had kind of did the
interview with you. What was that like
viral marketing lever that you had
pulled early on that enabled Silly Bandz
to get that global traction so quickly,
you know, like was it a multitude of
things, you know, like we interviewed
recently Don Vultaggio who's the founder
of like the Arizona Iced Tea and like
when I asked him like what was the
number one growth lever, he said it was
the packaging cuz it's at the eye level,
everybody sees it. What was it for Silly
Bandz that enabled it to become a global
phenomenon?
I think the key in the beginning had
nothing to do with me.
Because entrepreneurs generally take a
lot of risk
and they throw things at the wall as you
say and they see what sticks, you know,
and that's one of the number one lessons
any young entrepreneur can learn. You
have to get the at bats. Everyone thinks
they're going to try one idea and it
fails then they go back to their 9:00 to
5:00 job. That's just not how big
companies and wealth is built. So for
me, I think it was right place, right
time because when Silly bands first
really turned into profitable and
starting to grow and become this big
phenomenon was in 2010 was the biggest
year and that was when the market was in
really bad place. So I think it was
really great because parents could go
out and spend $15 on a bunch of packs of
silly bands and make their kids really
happy rather than spending $300 on a
PlayStation or whatever was popular at
that time. So I think it was right place
right time pricing and it was just
different because there was nothing in
the market right then that was
collectible, tradeable, but also
affordable. And that's the cool thing
and that today even now is still a big
part of silly bands
sustainability as a brand because you
know, the people that were 10, 11, 12
back then are now in their 20s and
they're showing their younger brothers
and sisters how cool it is with silly
bands and like even like 2, 3 years ago
people were like they were the original
NFTs and that's kind of a good way to
look at it. So yeah. But what fascinates
me about this is that, you know, like
you said a family could go out and spend
$15 get a couple packs of silly bands
and it makes their children's day,
right? And I asked I asked you this in
our last interview which was that like
when you take a company example like the
Snuggie, right?
>> Yep. It's it's a blanket with sleeves on
paper. You're like, what the hell is
this thing? $100 million in sales. Yep.
Shaped rubber bands.
It's not the craziest idea, but you
executed it perfectly. Talk to us about
the importance of that execution as the
entrepreneur beyond just having the most
perfect idea.
Yeah, this is probably one of the best
questions anyone's ever asked because so
many people get entrepreneurship wrong
and they get wealth building wrong
because of it. And that is they think
they have to have the perfect machine,
the perfect product, the perfect
everything and that's just not
reasonable. And I think it's partially
because we're conditioned when you're
interviewing billionaires and you're
interviewing brand people that have
exited for a hundred million dollars,
they don't tell the blood, sweat, and
tears nearly enough. Because most ideas,
in my opinion, you should get to market,
you should iterate, and you should see
if there's good product market fit. I
have to deal with this every single day
in my regular job of helping other
brands and companies in consulting
because they want to fix everything
first, and they don't even know if
anyone wants their product. And so, I
think the key is to really stay focused
on getting out there, testing, you know,
using, you know, social media to to see
what works and and and how it can scale,
and then fix it as you go. Because for
anyone to think Silly Bandz, we had it
all figured out, I mean, I'm out there
buying a building to fix a problem, then
we had to like hire 50 people a month
just to try and keep up with things. So,
I think it's really important for
people, don't worry about perfection,
worry about iterating and speed. Because
right now, the internet and trends move
at the speed of sound. And when you talk
about Snuggie, it's a prime example.
They iterated on a product that has been
around forever. You don't have to come
up with this mind-blowing invention to
make a hundred million dollars. You
really don't. If you understand
marketing and you understand how to
source products, iterate on something
that exists that you think you can make
better. I've got like eight products in
the works right now that are so simple,
but you'd think like, why didn't someone
do that? And it's the same way with the
Snuggie. It It's like It doesn't have to
be that complicated. Everybody is just
like, man, how do I invent the next the
next iPhone or whatever, you know? It
doesn't have to be that way. And I
remember it back when I was nine, ten
years old in the in the Silly Bandz
craze. And I love that you spoke to uh
product market fit and the real timing
of and that was kind of the key to the
viral moment. Uh so many startups
nowadays, they, you know, they fail
because they try they they they time the
market. It's not It doesn't meet in that
time. What are some ways that, you know,
since you guys were able to do that with
Silly Bandz and catch that traction, for
a lot of entrepreneurs out there that
are trying to launch their product or
their startup and they have this idea,
how can they really hone in on Hey, how
can they find product market fit and
really time the market in the right way
like you guys were able to do?
I would say the most important part of
that question is for people to
understand don't put the cart before the
horse. I see so many founders now that
want to go out and raise millions of
dollars. They want to get a board of
directors. They want to do all these
things before they even have a product.
Bootstrap it. Do a friends and family
round. Get to the market. I famously
tell the story I almost sold off a
portion of Silly Bandz when I was
forming it because I was so busy with
everything else and a group a local
investment group wanted to invest
$250,000 in the idea. I said yes, we
went to paperwork, then they said,
"Well, we're going to do a 100,000 and
test it out." Then they went back to
50,000 and I was like, "For $50,000 I'll
do it myself." And thank God I did that
because I bootstrapped it. I actually
sold one of my classic cars to pay for
all the tooling. Um but I still to this
day, as we speak and film, own 100% of
Silly Bandz, which is just incredible
because I could have easily sold them
20% of it for $100,000, not had to come
out of pocket at all, but I like to
bootstrap because the worst thing you
want to do is lose investors' money, but
you also don't want to raise so much
capital that you don't have any tenacity
to really make it work. I see founders
all the time. They're getting paid 10,
20,000 dollars a month through investor
capital. They're out living the life
because they don't have any hunger or
fear.
>> We We say the most the thing that we
question the most is these people that
just keep raising money. This is a
perfect person to ask cuz cuz cuz you're
invested in a lot of venture back
companies. You give a lot of money to
these people. We for the life cannot
understand, right? We live in Austin,
it's a big tech city. There's all these
people just raising millions of dollars.
They have no revenue. Right. Right.
>> There's no business. They've been in the
ideation and building. And I'm like,
building? You've been building for 8
years and you're still raising money.
You haven't sold a a single thing. And
I'm like, what's going on?
>> What is that about? Yeah, I'm going to
tell you a story and then I'm going to
cover that. So, I helped a guy that
worked for me. He had a really good idea
and it was an app for uh the sports
industry. I'm not going to name names.
Um and um he wanted to raise capital. I
put in the seed round and I was like,
we'll get up and running. And then
because of me, we brought in a huge,
huge name, multi-billionaire person.
He's like, if Robert Croxson I'm in. I
trust that guy.
So, we get up and running. We're
starting to build it. We hire some
staff. And I'll never forget it as long
as I live. The first time I visited the
new office, I came in and I'm like, what
the hell is going on? There's all new
desk, all new computers, gaming chairs,
all this stuff. And I'm like, whoa,
whoa, whoa. What are we doing here? This
is not how you build a company. I'm all
about I want to walk into a startup and
see IKEA white tables with regular basic
chairs, everyone on their laptops. We
don't need a $10,000 coffee machine, all
that stuff. So, that happened when me
the second time I visited our office,
um he wasn't there. So, I'm like, wait a
second. Where is he? So, I asked a
couple of the employees and they're
like, oh, he's he's almost never here.
I'm like, what do you mean? He's like,
yeah, he's either walking the dog or
skiing or biking or something like that.
And so, I see it all the time and and
the number one rule in venture investing
or investing in startups in general is
you need to bet on the jockey. Whoever
the quarterback is, that's what you're
betting on. You're not betting on the
idea as much. You're hoping the idea is
really sound and you're hoping, but
really good founders will figure it out
even if they have to pivot multiple
times. But you're right, there is a
world now because it's so easy to raise
capital that so many young entrepreneurs
and founders just continually raise
capital. Like you said, 7 years, 8
years. I see it all the time and I'm
just like, they're so far into, you
know, raising all this capital without
producing, yet they can really build
maybe a good deck or maybe they're good
at meetings or really good at Zoom
calls, but at the end of the day, you
want to bet on a quarterback that can
figure it out. And that's why first-time
starters that are entrepreneurs that's
their first startup, I generally pass on
if they don't have a track record
because they're never going to look at
the money
as being as important as as it is to me.
And so many founders are like, "Yeah, I
want to make 20 grand a month right out
of the gate at as part of the the deal,
the compensation package."
I walk away because I want a founder
that's willing to be blood, sweat, and
tears, run up their credit cards, do
whatever they have to do, sleep in the
office to make it work. And if they
don't have that drive and tenacity,
you're probably going to fail. Hey,
what's going on, guys? We're going to be
right back to this episode with business
mogul Robert Croken in just a second,
but I wanted to make an announcement to
remind you that if you were currently
not subscribed to the Hard Knocks
Podcast, take a second and do it right
now because every week we're bringing
the biggest and most incredible business
moguls in the world directly to you here
on the Hard Knocks Podcast. And make
sure to share this podcast with a friend
so that way they don't miss out on the
free game that you're about to get in
this episode. With that being said,
let's get back to the episode. So, when
we were starting Hard Knocks and and one
of the key points of what you just said
was pivoting. And a lot of successful
startup founders like, if you're if you
bet on the right jockey, like they will
pivot and figure it out with their
stuff. When we started Hard Knocks, we
didn't start doing interviews.
Originally, it was the three of us, you
know, young guys in our 20s making
content about business and we were like,
"Guys, we got to pivot. Like nobody's
going to take this seriously." So, we
started going and talking to other
people. Uh and you know, sometimes a lot
of these founders, like they get so
bought into an idea that they just keep
trying to let it ride, let it ride and
and you know, you hear the term never up
give up, but sometimes you got to take
that idea behind the barn and shoot it
and try again.
And so at what point for an entrepreneur
could they learn like, hey, this is how
I could learn to pivot effectively and
when do I need to change course before I
roll myself into the ground?
Yeah, great question. So many
entrepreneurs and business owners will
ride something for years when it's
losing. They'll keep raising money,
they'll keep going further into debt,
they'll leverage their house and that is
just not you have to really look it's
just not a good recipe for success
because you have to look at opportunity
cost. It's just like when people buy a
stock on a tip from Uncle Bill at the
barber shop and the stock goes down 70%
and they're like, oh, I'm going to ride
it till it's back up. Guess what? It's
probably not coming back up. You know,
people don't cut their losses soon
enough
especially younger entrepreneurs and
then they end up going, oh I just
wasted eight years of my life on this
business. I didn't get anywhere. Now I
have to start over. So I think it is a
critical point that everyone needs to
sit down and have the hard conversation
with themselves, their team, their wife,
whatever it may be and say, okay, we
tried this, we've dumped everything into
it, it didn't work. How can we salvage
anything from this business and move on
to the next idea? And I think it's that
self-realization. I say it openly in our
first interview, I have failed way more
times than I've succeeded, but people
only count the successes.
And all of the failures that I've had
generally laid the groundwork for me to
be so good at what I do now and that's
the biggest thing and lesson I try to
teach entrepreneurs is understand
there's going to be failure, but if
you're willing to learn from it and
pivot, you will eventually succeed. We
just recently did a podcast with Daniel
Lubetzky who's the founder of Kind Bar
which you guys would have a fascinating
conversation. I need to connect you guys
to do a podcast cuz I think you'd really
like him, but I wanted to go back to
this idea of like the product iteration.
And we were talking about it on the
podcast with him that with Kind Bar in
the food and beverage industry,
there it's really hard to test a product
to the public. Like if if you, excuse my
language, but if you up like a a
food and beverage product to the the
public, it's hard to kind of recover
from that. Whereas he talks about in in
the tech industry like Meta, Instagram,
they can test a feature and if it
doesn't hit, if it doesn't work, people
hate it, they can kill it. In your
business, right? Like the the product
business for Silly Bandz for example,
how where is kind of like the fine line
between like if you were to kind of test
the, you know, a feature or type of
product and it didn't hit,
like what I'm curious to kind of get
your take on that in your line of
business that you were in?
Well, here's a prime example. I have a
product that I'm not going to name on
the podcast, um
but we got our production
order, our first production order, and
we're going to go live here in the next
couple weeks.
And I wasn't happy with the end result
of the box quality and the print.
Now, I could have easily said, "All
right, it's only a thousand units. Let's
send it to market. A hundred of those
units are going to go to influencers
that are going to, you know, do videos
for us. So, it's okay." But, I didn't do
that. I I rejected it, sent it back to
the factory. I said, "You have to give
me the box at the quality and the level
we expected and at what the sample was."
And sometimes you can't avoid mistakes
and you can't avoid You don't have the
ability to test like you alluded to. You
know, if you're in the snack bar protein
bar world, you know, it's very difficult
to test and see what works. And that's
why so many people It's really weird
that we live in a world we all want to
eat healthy,
but yet so many of the big brands you
see out there that are popular and and
talked about on social media, the
founders lost their way and don't really
care about the quality. And they end up
just white labeling through some big
co-packer or whatever, and I think the
key is build something if you're in the
health industry or the food industry or
makeup industry or whatever it is, build
something that is different and high
quality that aligns with your message
and what you want for the company and
stick to it. We see it all the time
where a company makes a big wave, they
get talked about a hundred million
dollar world, and then all of a sudden
they sell off to somebody like a
Coca-Cola or Nabisco or whatever, and
then all the ingredients that they built
the the platform on and the brand on,
they go away and it just becomes another
crappy product. So, I think it's all
about
don't build a brand just to make money.
Build a brand because it's meaningful to
you and you're filling a need in the
market, no matter what sector it is, and
stay true to the goal because so many
people are worried about the
profitability first. It should be
figuring out does this do people want
this product? Cuz everybody that comes
up with a product idea, they go to their
family and say, "What do you think?
Isn't it great?" The family always tells
them it is. They spend their life
savings on it and find out that nobody
else cares, and that's a huge mistake.
We could spend hours on that one, but I
think it's just really important to try
to get to market, see what works, get a
broader audience to look, test, and
taste the product, and then go from
there of what to do next. Because you're
right, with tech, you can iterate all
day long and just bury something that
didn't work. let's look at Apple.
Apple's really struggling from a design
and development perspective for years
now,
and they have this big war chest of
money, but they'll spend hundreds of
millions of dollars on something and
then abandon it if they're too far
behind the race or if they if they
couldn't get the product figured out.
So, I think it's best to just always
bootstrap, figure it out, and test with
a broader audience. We live in a world
now where we can put out a wait list for
a thousand people, send them the
product. There are seed people and see
if they really like it, the quality,
what their feedback is, and then go to
the broader market. So, there is a lot
more ways to test products now than ever
before. You've had your success with
Silly Bandz and now you're launching
more product products now and I feel
like some people may look at you and
say, "Well, it's easy for you to launch
a product and go into retail because you
already have all the connections."
And you've done it before.
But
I would imagine it didn't start out that
way. You didn't have any retail
connections. You weren't able to get
into stores so easily.
For someone who's watching this, whether
they have a food and beverage brand or a
physical product brand, how can they go
about building relationships with
physical locations and retail centers to
actually put their products in and get
that initial test in?
Yeah, great question. First and
foremost, build the story first. So many
people get a product done, they get it
on their shelves, they have no sales,
they have no story, they have nothing to
show for the product, and they
immediately want to go to retail. So,
they'll go to a product show for food or
beverage or whatever it is, spend
$10,000, get a booth, do all that, and
nothing happens. Don't do that. Build
the story, build the audience, find your
tribe with that product, even if it's
only a thousand people. And then once
you have that built, retailers want to
see a story.
And retailers are generally always going
to be late to the party when it comes to
a product. With Silly Bandz, we
had to tell retailers no because we
couldn't keep up. We were scaling so
fast. And we had a dozen people just
working on retail integration around the
world, and it still wasn't enough. We
didn't have to go out and beat the
streets, but here's the funny story.
Once Silly Bandz died off, even after
hundreds of millions in sales and
billions of Silly Bandz being out on the
market, when I would go back to that
same retailer with the next next
product, they'd be like, "Well, I don't
really see it. I'm not sure, Robert, if
this is a good fit for us." And I'm
like, "Well, did you see Silly Bandz
coming, either?" You took a chance on
Silly Bandz because we already had the
story built and the viral nature of
Silly Bandz was already out there, so it
was a lot easier. So, for newer
founders, don't worry about retail as
much. Worry about direct-to-consumer.
TikTok Shops is huge. All of those
things that cost you no money cuz where
people get it wrong with retail for
people that have brands, they don't
realize you have all the insurances. You
have all of the
um the different applications you have
to have. All of these different things.
And on top of it, the contractual
agreement you're going to sign with a
retailer, if you don't sell two units
per store per week in Target, they're
going to send the product back. Then you
have 15, 20, 50,000 units that get sent
back. You have to pay for it to come
back. Then you have to find a way to
resell it. So, I think the answer for
you is people should not focus on
retail. Build the story. Build the
brand. Build the online presence because
retail will come.
You mentioned that you went from 17 to
over 3,200 employees at Silly Bandz. And
when you actually came and did a
community call with us for our School of
Hard Knocks community, I remember you
were saying like when you do business
with somebody
and even maybe for people that you hire,
when you go to dinner with them, if they
talk bad about their spouse or somebody
that they've done business with, you
oughta like, I don't want to do business
with this person. I don't want to hire
them. And I've actually taken that, you
know, our team we last year we went from
12 to over 60 people at School of Hard
Knocks. And for me, when I'm doing a
find my final job interviews, I think
about, well, if this person in the
middle of the job interview starts
talking bad about a previous employer,
I'm like, that's a red flag to me. And
so, I wanted to take that to heart. But
my kind of two-part question is like,
you know, where did you kind of learn to
approach business like that? And two,
what is your best advice for hiring
people since you were able to go from 17
to 3,200 uh for entrepreneurs that are
looking to scale their team.
Yeah, so you're talking about the story
where I tell people if you want to know
if a partner is a good fit or an
important hire is a good fit. This
doesn't count for like everyday people
that you're hiring, but if it's somebody
that's going to be in a management role
or a partner role, I always like to take
them golfing and then to dinner. Because
if their etiquette on the golf course is
bad, they improve their lie, they don't
stay in turn when you're at the tee box,
or just in general, let's say they just
get really drunk on the golf course,
they're generally going to be that way
in life. And especially if you take them
out to a nice dinner afterwards, how
they treat the servers, how they treat
the valet person, all of those things
are a window into your future if you do
business with them. And so, I just
absolutely try to do it as much as
possible. I remember, and it's a really
fun story, shoutout Dan Fleishman. We
were raising capital for a project, and
this guy walks in and there was I think
eight of us in this dinner, and this guy
started talking and like 10 minutes in I
had a weird vibe about him, and then he
just started badmouthing his wife
because she dinged a rim on their
Mercedes, and he just went on and on
about it. So, I texted Dan under the
table during the meeting, I said, "Hey,
I'm going to excuse this guy. I can't
take his money and I don't want him on
our cap table." And Dan was like, "LOL,
go for it." And so, I literally we
finished the dinner and I walked up to
the guy and I said, "Hey man, thanks for
coming out.
Not going to accept your money today.
Appreciate you stopping by, but this
isn't a good fit for me." And so, he got
very upset about it and he was like,
"Why? This is ridiculous. Why would you
not take my check?" I just don't ever
want to do business, and I want all of
you to feel the same way. Don't do
business with people that you wouldn't
sit around a bonfire with and have a
good time with because you will regret
it down the road.
I love that.
>> That's great advice. That's a powerful
story right there. Happy to go back to
team. I wanted to shift slightly to
talking about
you got you sold Silly Bandz in how many
stores?
How many stores would you say roughly?
No idea. 10,000s? Oh, yeah, hundreds of
thousands.
Yeah, cuz we had every 7-Eleven, every
Speedway, every Target, every Walmart,
every every I don't I really don't even
know that number anymore.
>> So, you know, another gentleman that I
had the pleasure of interviewing out in
Boston was actually the founder of
Whoop, which is this right here. They
just got a $4 billion valuation. And one
of the things he mentioned in our
interview, you know, when I asked him
about, you know, were you ever afraid of
competition? And he talked about how,
you know, big companies like Amazon
started to copy his exact product.
>> Yeah. And with Silly Bandz, you had some
of the stores that you were in trying
copy you. One of those was Walmart. Can
you tell us the story about when you
were in the
the boardroom with Walmart, man?
Can you tell us the story?
>> Oh,
yeah, sure. So, Can you talk about it?
Is that okay? Okay.
>> So, the biggest mistake
and for anyone building a brand or
researching a brand,
spend this $100 because it'll be the
best $100 you've ever spent.
When we finalized the name of Silly
Bandz
and that was the the brand we were going
with, we got our social media handles,
you know, taken care of. We made sure we
had the URLs, all of that. In the cart
for buying the URLs, I had Zany Bandz,
Crazy Bandz, and every other iteration
of the name we wanted.
And we that made it to the finals, I
didn't buy those URLs and it was a
multi-multi-million
dollar mistake over $100. So, I tell
everyone right now building a brand,
if it's a very defined style of name
like Silly Bandz with a Z was, buy every
other iteration of the name and save the
socials as well.
>> This is game right here. Because I'm
going to tell you what, you're going to
spend I mean right now to save a URL for
a year is like $11.
You go buy every iteration of the ones
that are close because then what that
does, it locks out the knockoff
companies from being able to sound like
you and be able to mimic your branding
to be able to gain traction because
somebody might not know the difference
between a silly band and a crazy band.
So I made that mistake with silly bands,
but then fast forward
after it slowed down, after everything
happened, um we had lawsuits everywhere
and Walmart was one of them. Walmart
spent a long time, so everyone
listening, don't go to Walmart first
because it's where brands go to die.
Sorry Walmart, but it's the truth. Um
you have to really be careful. And so
the Walmart story is they met with us,
they flew in, they had to tour our
factories, they did all of it, they did
all their due diligence, then they went
dark on the negotia- on the negotiations
after we were finished.
Couldn't figure it out. And then like 2
months later I'd forgotten about it and
someone was like, "Hey, uh they took a
picture from Walmart and they had I
forget what it was, it was called Zany
Bands, I think, or Crazy Bands and they
had them everywhere in every store.
So they basically used us to figure it
all out, then they hired a distributor
to knock us off and go into the stores.
So the legendary story was we went
through all this negotiation and we go
to a mediation
and Walmart walks in, they've got like
eight powerful lawyers. I brought my one
 lawyer that was terrible.
And um he got fired after the meeting.
We we rode together, so it was a very
silent drive back to back to Toledo,
Ohio. Um but I sat there for 2 and 1/2
hours letting the lawyers do their thing
and and I and we took a break. I said,
"You are getting your teeth absolutely
kicked in. I thought you were supposed
to be the specialist at trademark law
and all this stuff. So, I said, "I'm
taking over." So, we go back in, we sit
down,
and I look at them, and I made this up
on the fly, and it is one of the coolest
moments of my career. I went back in,
I'm looking at all of them. So, I'm at
this giant conference table, and they're
all sitting there, all these Ivy League
lawyers. I said, "I want to ask you guys
a question. Just just simple. Just bear
with me here." I said, "How many animals
are indigenous to the rainforests uh in
the world?" They're like, "Oh god, I
don't know. I have no idea." And I'm
like, "No, just take a guess." "Oh, I
don't know, 1,000, 5,000, whatever." I
go, "47,000
different creatures live in the
rainforest." They're like, "Wow,
fascinating. Mr. Crooke, what does that
have to do with this case?" I go, "Well,
if you didn't knock me off, why did you
choose the same six animals I did for
the rainforest pack?"
I go, "You had 47,000 options, you chose
the same six." I go, "I'll be in the
lobby. I set my mic down." I go, "I
expect a settlement. You have 15
minutes." And I walked out.
They were you've never seen silence. I
get goosebumps just talking about it.
Never seen six people that had nothing
to say, and they're all lawyers. And I
walked out, I waited in the lobby. 15
minutes later, we had a settlement, and
I left. And I fired the lawyer in the
elevator. What what was that
conversation in the elevator?
>> I just told him, I said, "You got your
You got your ass
>> [laughter]
>> I said, "You got your ass handed to
you." [laughter] And yeah, so I never
never spoke to him again.
>> It's the power of being willing to walk
away, though, which is what you did.
>> I was. I was willing to walk away
because
I knew they knocked me off. They knew
they knocked me off. And they were
hiding behind the law, and them being
able to hide behind the distributor, and
make this distributor take all of the
risk in this indemnification they had
with the distributor. And so, for me, I
don't know where that story came from. I
don't know how I concocted in the matter
of 3 minutes on a break, but it worked
perfectly. And and it made sense
mathematically. They they did not have
an answer, and I just walked out.
>> It's cuz
>> you knew it. You just knew. You're like
you you you you it's that just that
die-hard entrepreneur just love for
their own company. And you see it, and
you're just like
Like there's something that you're just
man, I can't believe these Well, their
efforts written me off it.
>> Imagine that scene in a movie.
>> That's a movie. People People would have
lost their minds. That's a movie.
>> old-school Wall Street, the first movie
stuff with Michael Douglas. But yeah, so
that's a a fun story about dealing with
knockoffs [snorts] because it's never
fun. And And it's worse now because, you
know, back in 2010, '11, '12, you didn't
have tens of thousands of people that
knew what Alibaba was and knew how to
launch products. I mean, think about it
right now. People talk about Well, it's
difficult to launch a company. You have
it made because you're already rich.
It's so easy now. You can launch a brand
literally for $100 and test the market,
yet people want to use excuses. I tell
the story all the time. When we launched
custom silicone bracelets, this is long
before Shopify and WordPress and all
that, to build a shopping cart
for your website back in 2003, '04 was
like $15,000.
Now you can go on Shopify with a free
trial and have a website through AI up
in 10 minutes, and people still want to
make excuses why they're broke. You can
start a brand with $100.
But what's a brand that people should
not go into? Is it
physical products? Is it, you know,
certain types of consumer goods? Like
what are What's a product you would tell
like a first-time founder or someone
who's looking to get into the product
game where you're like, "Hey,
there's just so many trials and
tribulations with this. Just stay away
from it." I would say
vodka,
energy drinks,
and cosmetics unless you're going to
build a cosmetic product that truly is
different. The one we're getting ready
to launch in the next month is going to
blow the world's minds because I told
the company that I'm working with my
partners, I can't put my name or my
might or my money behind something if it
truly doesn't work and make a
difference. So, I think consumer
products are in my opinion
the best way or tech to build real
wealth. We all talk about real estate,
we all own real estate. I love real
estate, so don't come for me.
Um I'm very heavily invested in real
estate, but real estate is a slow game.
For younger entrepreneurs that
understand the internet and AI and
marketing, I think consumer products are
an incredible way to make fast wealth
because it doesn't take hundreds of
thousands of dollars of money up front.
You don't have to go raise a bunch of
capital. You know, if I want to go buy
an apartment building, and I'm kind of
shocked that that Grant Cardone said
this recently even. I think it was like
a couple weeks ago. He said the first
place people should start in real estate
is buy a 32-unit apartment building.
That's horrible advice. How's the
average person who's never bought real
estate going to raise the capital,
understand the numbers, and be able to
buy a 32-unit
building and start out in real estate?
Terrible advice. And so, I think it's
all about Real estate is great and
everyone should be building real estate
in their portfolio later, but if they
want to try a consumer product, think
about TikTok Shop right now. I know
people making six-figures a month
selling some product that they
white-labeled on TikTok Shop with no
overhead. They have a ring light, a
phone, and TikTok, and they're up and
running.
Robert, I feel like in the finance habit
space and just the financial literacy
space, everyone loves to talk about the
$7 latte.
That's a big debate. Some people are
like, "Hey, you know, for the seven you
know, go have your $7 latte. It's not
going to make a difference." Or, you
know, you should avoid it. Uh what are
you know, I'd love for you to talk about
the latte phenomenon, but what are three
rich habits that you're on the Rich
Habits podcast? What are three rich
habits that the everyday um you know,
entrepreneur and wealth builder should
be incorporating into their lives?
Yeah, the latte. So, a lot of the
fake gurus that uh you all know who you
are that um talk about the latte and the
avocado toast and say it doesn't matter,
go have the latte every day, go have the
avocado toast every day. They just don't
understand what compound interest can do
for younger people.
And so, there is a uh a number that I
put out there and you can fact-check it,
anyone out there that wants to
fact-check it. For every dollar you
waste and you don't invest in let's say
your early 20s, you're 22 or 23 years
old, that $1
for that latte that day, so let's say
it's $7 that day, every dollar can turn
into $77
in retirement. Every dollar.
So, for that one beer you don't drink
that's $6, that $6 invested would turn
into hundreds of dollars in retirement.
So,
I call bull on all of these people
because they don't understand that most
people
little leaks sink ships. And so, most
people go about their day, in the
morning they get a $7 coffee and they
get a muffin, then at lunch they go get
a Red Bull or two and they get their $16
lunch, and they do this for 30 years,
and they wonder where all their money
went.
And so, that's why people get wealth so
backwards. They think that all the rich
people out there just spend money like
it's nothing, and it's actually the
opposite. We always say on the Rich
Habits podcast, wealthy people forecast,
broke people react.
And I think it is one of the best things
everyone can learn because they always
get it backwards and they think wealthy
people don't budget. Wealthy people are
avid budgeters. They put all investments
on automation as much as possible. They
make sure they have a budget so they
know what they're doing and most
importantly, sorry Dave Ramsey, they use
other people's money. That's the thing
that people get so wrong. If you can't
pay cash for it, don't own it. You
shouldn't pay cash for anything, in my
opinion, because if I can borrow money
for 4 or 5% even 6% and I can make 12 or
15% in other investments or in the
markets, why would I not use other
people's money for everything? That's
why the wealthiest people on Earth,
people don't understand, they have
mortgages on their homes. They have They
have loans on their yachts and their
planes. They don't pay cash unless they
need a write-off because of the fact
that you always want to have the
positive arbitrage of your money going
into your pocket.
So, to condense that down, what would be
the three rich habits? I would say
number one is you have to start thinking
like an investor and not a consumer,
first and foremost. Most people, they
get their paycheck, it goes into their
bank account, it sits there. They may do
a little something with a high-yield
savings account, but most of the time
their money is sitting. Every dollar you
have should have a job. It should be
doing something. People laugh at me
because they'll be like, "Show me your
bank accounts." I'll show them. And
there's rarely, hardly ever any money in
my portfolio bank accounts because it's
all either automated or it has a place.
So, I would say number one would be
thinking like an investor and not a
consumer. And the challenge I give to a
lot of people that are just starting
out, every time you want to go buy the
new Nikes or you want to buy the new
Hokas or a new iPhone, if you can't
invest the same amount that day,
don't buy it. Because I need to get
people to start thinking like an
investor because you can literally,
again, this is where everyone gets it
wrong. You can start with $100, $200 a
month and still become a
multimillionaire in 30 years. You
absolutely can if you run the numbers.
And so it's just getting people to
start. That is my number one goal in
life is getting everyone out there to
stop blowing their money every week,
living beyond their means, and buying
crap they don't need, and get started.
So, mindset is first, getting started is
second. One of the things we talk about
on the Rich Habits podcast a lot is
building your base. Before you go buy a
real estate project, before you go
invest in anything crazy, build your
base and get that first $100,000 saved
and invested. And invest it in the
simple things, the S&P 500, the NASDAQ,
maybe an international fund, maybe a
bond fund. Get your base built. So, if
you have $100,000
and it's making you money, it might only
make you 9, 10, 12% a year, but at least
you know you're never going to wake up
and be broke because you have that set
aside. Then you can start diversifying
into other types of investments and
other things. Most people get it
backwards. They save 30 grand,
then their buddy says, "Hey, I'm going
to go flip this house." They're like,
"Oh, I'm in." They give him the 30
grand, they lose money, they're starting
over, then they have to spend a year and
a half to save the 30 grand again, to
and then they do this vicious cycle till
they're 40 some years old and finally
start investing like a pro. So, I would
say that would be number two. And then
number three would be get the base
built, then diversify. Don't do the
opposite because too many people, their
buddy wants to open a food truck, or
they're going to go do this and that.
Build the base so you're making money
while you sleep, and then you'll never
have to worry about going broke. There's
a phenomena within like the business
space where I feel like there's people
who are established entrepreneurs that
are telling the average person to go buy
a business.
Me personally, I think it's terrible
advice for the average person. The
reason I say that is because even if
you're buying a franchise, you are
technically buying a system, but most
people aren't really cut out to be
entrepreneurs.
Uh I think it'd be better off for people
to be just more traditional investments,
or maybe more passive investments in
other way. I'm kind of just curious for
you,
if you when you hear that advice and you
and other people telling you know, just
the average person to go buy a business
per se, which I feel like is very common
right now. What do you think about that?
I think it's terrible advice.
Because we hear it all the time. I'm not
going to mention names, but you hear the
same list of businesses because they're
selling a course on how to buy small
businesses. That's why they're going to
push that.
The average person that has never run a
business may have a great job. Maybe
they're an engineer or maybe they're
doing something they're making 100
150,000 a year. Soon as they get a
little money, they're like, "Well, I'm
going to listen to XYZ and I'm going to
go buy a laundromat because that's what
all the rich people do."
I don't know a single rich person that
owns a laundromat or a car wash. Car
washes maybe a little bit better, but
they all push the same narrative. I own
a lot of small businesses around the
country and I've been in every type of
business and I promise you billionaires
and people worth 50 million and above do
not own car washes and laundromats.
I would say people would be better off
once they build their base. They've got
that first 100 or 200,000 dollars
invested the old-fashioned way. So,
there's a famous quote from Warren
Buffett, so I'm going to give him a
shout-out here on this.
And a reporter asked him and this was
just recently a couple years ago.
Warren, why don't more people follow
your advice in investing? And he said,
"Because no one wants to get rich slow."
And I love that because I think it's
both. I'm an entrepreneur. When I
started, I threw my hat in every ring. I
went broke a million times because I was
going to figure it out. You don't have
to do that now. You can invest in all
these cool tools. You know, somebody
right now can go to public.com, open an
account, get their Roth Roth IRA set up,
invest $100 a month, $100 a week in VOO,
QQQ, and maybe Bitcoin, and just they're
up they're up and running. They're
they're in the race. They're in the
game.
But when people tell people to go buy
these small businesses, they have no
clue what they're doing. And they always
say, and this is the worst part of the
advice for everyone listening, they
always say it's passive. Well, you've
got your job, go buy this, it's passive.
Guess what? When someone forgets to lock
the door at night, that's not passive
cuz you're going to get up in the middle
of the night and go lock the door or
you're going to get robbed. When the
washing machine breaks, if you don't
have infrastructure and you don't have a
handyman to go fix it, you're going to
go fix the machine or figure it out and
you're going to be on YouTube a long
time trying to figure it out. I don't
like to see people start out buying
businesses. I'd rather them invest, if
they're going to invest in businesses,
in established founders that already own
businesses. Every single day,
a lot of people want to give me money
because I have a success rate. So, if
I'm doing a new project, I have a lot of
high net worth people, whatever you're
building, I want in on because they
trust that it's going to work. So, for
people that are out there, uh in the
influencer world, in the in the business
space, telling people to go buy all
these businesses, I would just like for
them to really come out from behind the
paywall of selling them a course on how
to buy a business and say, "Okay, here
are the actual bad things of what
happens in a business." I own a pizza
store in Parrish, Florida. It was going
fantastically well and we got hit by two
hurricanes a year and a half ago. So, we
had to close down for 2 months. We had
to renovate. We had to replace all the
drywall, all the flooring, all the
toilets, everything.
They don't talk about that. They just
say, "Buy my course, go buy a laundromat
and you're going to get rich." And it's
just not the truth. So, I agree with you
100%. Prior to the podcast, one of the
things that, you know, we were talking
about it and I asked you was, you know,
the three of us, um
business-wise, have been doing great
recently. And, um you know, are kind of
in that mindset of, man, like you're
talking about, get every dollar needs to
have a job for you. How do you preserve
that wealth? You know, we've been buying
real estate actively over the last year.
I invest in the stock market
individually. Um but we're like, man, I
I wanted to ask you is like, what what
are some other avenues or things how
would you kind of be diversifying if you
were us?"
And one of the things that you mentioned
was doing is
taking a shot and taking a chance at
investing in some of those companies
that do have the potential to, you know,
a 100X, right? Kind of like
the the the VC model, for example,
right? And I wanted to get your
perspective, right? Because it's not
just you, but the most successful guys
that are running VC companies and that
have hit on very successful companies,
they'll say that, "Hey, if you take 10
companies, invest in them, you got to be
willing to know that the majority of
them are going to fail. But it's that
one, maybe two companies out of that
batch of 10 that's going to really hit."
What do you see typically in those
companies that consistently every single
time is the reason why those one or two
companies hit on a consistent basis?
Yeah, it's a great question and it's
really difficult to pinpoint. You know,
I say you have to bet on the quarterback
who's running it, but also their track
record. In most cases, a lot of these
companies that go on to be unicorns do
have a track record. And it might be
failure and it might be other exits.
But it's understanding, let's back up a
little bit. It's understanding that if
you're going to invest in venture in
these pre-IPO private placement deals,
you have to look at it that if you do 10
investments, five or six of them are
probably going to go to zero. Two of
them are probably going to do pretty
well, and then you're looking for that
one or two that really 100X's your
money.
And that's what you want to work towards
because no one gets it right every time.
It's just not possible. Some of the most
gifted people that are out there, people
you've interviewed, I mean, like, let's
face it, Ashton Kutcher, the former 70s,
you know, actor, um, from The 70s Show,
is one of the most gifted venture people
I know. And he's done really, really
well picking the jockeys, picking the
quarterbacks. So, I think as long as
people understand, and for you guys at
your age and the fact that you have cash
and you have this dry powder to deploy,
you should just be diversified. Like I
said earlier, you should be looking at
where is the puck going right now? It's
going to energy. It's going to space.
Data centers in space is not a dystopian
dream anymore. It's a reality. It is,
you know, the blockchain is still going
to be a big big thing. It's AI. All of
these things are where you should be
deploying some of your money, but also
precious metals. I've been pounding on
the table for years telling people,
"Please, please put some money in gold,
silver, and copper." Now, gold, silver,
and copper have been up just hundreds of
percent in the last year and a half, 2
years. So, I think it's just
understanding
diversity and making sure you possess
it. Because a lot of people, we go back
to 2009, they were all in on real estate
2008, 9, and 10, and they went from
having their Bentleys and their
Rolls-Royces and all their fancy stuff
to then trying to borrow money from me.
Because I'm never going to be all in on
one sector because I don't ever want to
get wrecked. And so, I think the number
one thing for younger entrepreneurs that
are making really good money, get the
money out of your hands as soon as
possible and get diversified in all of
these sectors so you make sure you have
coverage in a down market like what
we're seeing today in the last few weeks
uh while we're filming this is there's a
lot of volatility and you want to make
sure your money is in a place where
volatility does not scare you or put you
in harm's way financially. You know, a
lot of these things, at least they seem
simple. Like it's just like, "Hey,
save your money, invest to invest it. Uh
every dollar that's not being used, it
needs to have a job." Why do you think
so many young people and investors and
even people that aren't young that are
that cuz it's probably even that
demographic as well. Why do you think
that what are they missing? What do they
not understand?
Yeah, the biggest dream killer
in the world, especially in the United
States, is because everyone lives beyond
their means. Everyone.
I don't remember the stat off the top of
my head, but we looked it up a few weeks
back, that the average household that
makes over $100,000 a year right now, I
think it was like 57% or 67% of them
live paycheck to paycheck.
Because it's a vicious cycle. And
everyone listening, this is probably the
most important thing you can remember
from this episode,
is if you let lifestyle creep
continually getting in the way
of your ability to succeed and build
wealth, you'll never build wealth. And
so many people do it. As soon as they
get a raise or a bonus, they buy a nicer
watch, they buy nicer clothes, they buy
a nicer car. Then when they make a
little more money, they upgrade the
apartment to a nicer apartment or a
different house. They continually
upgrade their lifestyle and they never
ever take the time to set aside 15 or
20% of their money that they don't
touch, that gets invested for their
future. And then they always use the
excuse, "Well, it just costs so much.
This neighborhood, the school district,
this is expensive." It's all your fault.
It's the person's fault because if you
don't ever put the brakes on your
spending to set yourself up for the
future, you'll never have a future of
being financially free. You just won't.
And a lot of the people we see on a
daily basis on the internet are exactly
that. You look at them and they have a
more expensive watch than me, they have
nicer cars than me. I have nice cars,
but nicer cars than me. They live so far
beyond their means. And when their
course business dries up or their
roofing business slows down or AI takes
over one of their businesses, they don't
have the millions of dollars of money
put away for the future to be able to
withstand that down period in their
careers. And I think that's the biggest
thing is lifestyle creep because we live
in a comparison-based world now. People
see the highlights of everyone on on and
TikTok and they're like, "I want to live
like that and they don't realize that
half of these people like I know an
influencer right now that everyone
listening and I'm not going to call him
out that rents an Airbnb to shoot his
content and rents a Lamborghini for the
week to shoot his content, goes and
shoots it all, makes the Airbnb look
like it's his, puts his personal stuff
in it, shoots all the content to sell
his course and then gives it all back a
week and goes back to his apartment. And
so this is happening every single day
and that is why it is so difficult for
people to understand who should I
believe in the world of finance? Who
should I take advice from? Who's really
real? I mean, look at the Epstein files.
I'm not following it that closely, but a
lot of people
that a lot of our youth really believe
in, they're getting wrecked because
people are finding out what they really
are as a person and not what they
portray to be. So the number one thing
is don't let lifestyle creep get in the
way. You have to put your foot on the
brakes, put aside money for investing
for your future and not touch it because
so many people build up a little bit of
wealth, they go buy a boat. Build up a
little bit of wealth, invest in
something bad. You have to have money
that you never touch so it is always
growing while you sleep. That is the
number one most important thing. In
entrepreneurship, it's very common for
somebody trying to do something
unordinary, right? Especially if they're
from a hometown where it may not be
super receptive to people wanting to go
out there and try and build a business
and do something untraditional. You
know, like we're from the DC area.
It's all government jobs. The thought of
trying to go out and build a media
company, let alone a multi-million
dollar media company, you know, we had
peers I'm sure that thought that we were
out of our minds. You in particular,
right? I'm sure you had some family and
friends that thought that you were a
little delusional and crazy, right? Can
you tell us the story? I'm sorry, I'm
going to bring this one up again because
I this is one of my favorite stories
that I've ever had told in one of my
interviews was when, you know, Uh, and
and I'll use the comparison that, you
know, our our parents now are just
immense supporters of what we do. I
mean, my mom every week is like, "You
need to interview this person and this
person and this person." And I think the
wake-up call for my mom and dad was when
they saw us interviewed on uh Fox News
on Brian Kilmeade show. They're like,
"Oh my gosh, I can't believe that you
guys are doing this."
>> It finally clicked.
>> And [snorts] and and and it clicked for
them. In your case, I believe it was
when your mom had went to a Target and
had seen your product. Could you tell us
that story and kind of the background on
um kind of what your mom's perceived
thoughts of you were you had started
this company?
>> Yes, it's a great story. So, I grew up
in East Toledo, very poor neighborhood,
no role models. We didn't have the
internet back then. We didn't have all
the incredible tools that that the youth
of today and the aspiring person that
wants to make something of their lives.
We didn't have all that. And I remember
um when Silly Bandz first started
growing, my mom wasn't really in the mix
and she wasn't really following along.
And um she said to me one day, I went
over to her house and she said to me,
and I still had the construction company
and all the other businesses and I was
doing all right, but it was definitely a
down year. This would've been
2009. And it was right when Silly Bandz
was getting traction. After Silly Bandz
got traction, I said to her, I said,
"Hey, I want to take you to lunch."
She's like, "What for?" And I'm like,
"Let's just go to lunch." And I'm like,
"I want to show you something." So, I
take her to lunch. I go, "We I got to
stop in Target and grab something." I
walk her into Target. I walk in, we walk
down this aisle and then I turn her
around by the cash registers cuz we had
the end cap and I showed it to her. I
said, "This is why you never quit."
Because she was just saying to me,
"Well, I don't know why you just don't
get a job. You have a degree. You could
go get a job." I'm like, "Mom, people
like me don't have jobs."
>> [laughter]
>> I'm like,
"You just don't." The last job I ever
had was at a car dealership and the
manager at the time, he poked me in the
chest and I said, "If you poke me in the
chest and yell at me again, I'm going to
beat the crap out of you." And he poked
me again and I got fired that day. And
so, that was the last job I ever had and
I think I was 21 or 22. But um so I
think it's just all about
you can't take advice from people that
aren't going where you're going.
I go through it right now. I mean just
3 and 1/2 years ago I had business
partners tease me and they were like,
"What are you doing, bro? You're making
yourself look like a fool doing TikTok
videos. TikTok is for kids dancing on
the internet." And I was like,
"It's sad that you don't understand that
and that you don't understand what I'm
doing." And now I've built I have over 4
million followers through all the
platforms, one of the biggest business
and finance podcasts in the country. You
know, I'm getting invited to go to the
White House and the New York Stock
Exchange the other day and all these
cool things because I educate and give
back and don't care what the rest of the
world says because they don't understand
my path, they never have. I mean even
when I was in my 20s and I was doing all
the things I was doing back then before
silly bands, everyone was always like,
"Why don't you just go get a job?" And
I'm like, "It's just not the world for
me." You know, I was always built to
create things of my own
and that's why I'm so glad at my age
that I'm able to take part in podcasts
like this and spread the word of my
experiences because it helps other
people realize you can't listen to
people that don't understand you and
don't know what drives you. I remember
um and this was in a good way but it's
still a great story. I was getting ready
to go on High Stakes Poker for the first
time back when I paid a lot played a lot
of poker
and I was packing up and I was leaving
in a couple hours and at the time my
wife's dad said to me, pulls me aside he
goes, "Hey man." He goes, "I'm just
saying, I'm not trying to be rude or
anything." He goes, "But are you sure
you want to do this?" I'm like, "What do
you What do you mean? It's going to be
amazing." And he's like, "You're going
to go risk $500,000 playing poker?" I
said, "Well, you've seen me play poker.
You know, I have a very high win rate
and I love poker. Yeah, I'm going to go
risk it. He goes, "Well, I just want to
make sure there's never going to be a
situation where you're going to have to
come and move in with us because you're
gambling your money away." And it was
just a story that I never forgot because
here's a person that cared for me, but
also didn't understand my path in life.
And so, that's why I always tell anyone
that's young and that'll listen or older
people, it's never too late to give up
to start and you should never give up
because of what someone else says. You
are the only person on this earth that
knows the path that you want to be on
and you need to stick to that path. We
were talking about it in the car on the
way over here that this was a really
full circle podcast for us. I mean,
obviously not just because
you know, Silly Bandz was a part of our
childhoods, but I mean, the fact that,
you know, your content since 2019, 2020,
we've been consuming like on a on a
regular basis and I just want to give
you your flowers on the content that you
create.
>> Seriously, we we we used to we used to,
you know, you know, show other people
being like, "Hey, like that selfie style
of doing a video, like you could do
content like that."
>> crazy production, but it's so tactical
and I mean, you ran up millions of views
and hundreds of thousands of followers
off of it and it's it's real tactical
advice and I remember when I had first
seen you,
we were probably I don't even know if he
had started Hard Knocks when I first
started seeing his videos. It may have
may been like right before it and I
remember cuz I interviewed you what,
2024
2024, but it was a couple years before
that I had like one or two and just I
know that you're you're like us all over
the place and I was I was like, "Man, I
I got to do a video with this guy at
some point." But man, I just I I got to
give you your flowers because
you're one of in my opinion, like one of
the the best personal brand business
people that people should be, you know,
tapped into and following because it's
real tactical advice from people that's
actually built companies and had a
success on both the wealth creation and
wealth preservation side of things.
Yeah, I want to I want to click back on
that. And thank you for all of you.
Um but it's just if you look at my
content today versus 4 years ago, it's
exactly the same. It's tactical. I don't
fall for any of the trends. I have 20
agencies a week that hit me up and go,
"Yo, bro, you're killing it. But if you
let us edit your videos, we'll we'll do
better." I'm like, "No, it won't do
better." Because I don't ever want to
lose like trust me. I could do clickbait
stuff. I could follow all the trends
that everyone else does. And I grow
slower because I stick to what works and
that is I might not get as many views or
as many likes or as many shares as
people that do clickbait and all the
fake stuff, but I change people's lives
because, you know, I'm a gray-haired
older man that is trying to share as
much value as possible. So, I don't care
about the trends that happen on TikTok
and Instagram. I stick with the plan and
it goes in waves. Sometimes I have
months where the videos don't do as
well, but I know it's still changing the
people that see its lives. I can't
control what the the algorithms do. I
can control what I do and that's what I
focus on. One of the things that you
touched on that I loved was was about
the lifestyle inflation.
And how look, if you keep making more
money and you're not increasing you
know, the other aspects of your life
like investing and just you know,
storing away for the future. But I also
want to talk about another facet which
is
celebrating your wins. Yep.
>> And let's say someone is investing for
their future. They're doing quite well
for themselves. At what point can they
go out and buy a nice car or reward
themselves with a watch? Like I know
there's like that famous saying like if
you can't buy it twice, like you can't
buy it. But like what's like the
framework that you follow and you
recommend others to follow to reward
themselves with like a win like a
personal win.
Yeah, this is a great question and I'm
going to give a shout out to Austin, my
partner at Austin Hankwitz on the Rich
Habits podcast. He has a good framework
and I really like it, and I think it's I
think his framework, and it can be
adjusted monetarily, is every time he
saves and invests $100,000, he rewards
himself, whether it's a new watch or a
new jet ski or something like that,
where it's maybe 10% of that that new
milestone. And I think people can adjust
that because you don't want to be really
rich and never have fun.
I have a buddy right now that has been a
friend of mine for almost 30 years. He
lives a horrible life.
And he has millions and millions of
dollars. If you saw him on the street,
you'd think he was a construction worker
that does, you know, not even good
construction because he's got a beat-up
truck, a beat-up house, beat-up
furniture. He won't upgrade any of his
stuff, and I beg him every time I talk
to him once or twice a year, "Dude, you
have millions of dollars, you have no
kids, upgrade your lifestyle so you
enjoy your life." So, I think it's
really important for people to
understand
most men, especially, kick the can down
the road on setting themselves up later
till probably, who knows? We need a
Harvard study. It's probably 43 years
old when they wake up and have that "Oh,
shit" moment of, "What have I been doing
for all of my 20s and 30s and now into
my 40s?" I see it all the time, and I
did a video a couple weeks ago that
really touches on this. And I said, um,
I said, "Isn't it crazy we live in a
world where the average, there's
millions of adult males that know every
stat,
every score of every game, they know
everything from every player, but they
don't know what a Roth IRA is, what the
the S&P 500 is?"
>> They they don't know their own stats.
>> They don't know anything about finance,
but yet they know every stat about other
men that are making millions [laughter]
of dollars playing sports.
>> they'll know, you know, LeBron's
finances before their own.
>> That's right. And so, that is one of the
things, and I got, you know, quite a few
haterade comments from that video, but
it got a few million views because it's
the truth. I have guys all the time I
was had a bunch of buddies in town.
Sorry about this guys.
But I had a bunch of buddies in town a
couple weeks ago and they're not close
friends, but they're friends and they
wanted to just talk about sports and
this and that. I said guys, I can't tell
you who won the Super Bowl last year. I
have no clue. If you had a gun to my
head, I couldn't tell you who won the
World Series. I don't care what other
men are doing. I care about helping the
people that care about listening to me
and I care about my own family success.
>> So here's the question. This is this is
it right here. Should men buy sports
jerseys with another man's name on the
back of it? Never in the history of
mankind.
>> [laughter]
>> Now.
Now.
Now. [laughter]
I will say I will say this.
If
if Michael Jordan was going to if I was
going to go shoot a pick-up game with
him and he said he'd sign a jersey, I'd
go buy a jersey and frame it because I'm
a big Michael Jordan fan. He's also a
billionaire. That's right. But I would
never go out in public wearing another
man's name on my
>> [laughter]
>> body. A jersey. I just wouldn't do it.
And and that's no hate to the I have a
lot of friends that do it. My apologies.
It's just me. People always ask me and
I've lost friends over this over the
years because you know, they're always
like, well, how did you end up with so
much money? I'm like, cuz I don't do
what you do. I don't go out every
weekend waiting to get drunk. I don't
have five fantasy teams and I'm totally
fine with people that want to do fantasy
sports. I don't want to get a lot of
hate from this. I'm totally fine. It's
just not the life I've chosen.
>> And you have the blinders on. You're
thinking about Robert Kraft. You're not
thinking about this person, you know. I
love to play sports. I don't like to
idolize other people that play sports. I
like playing tennis. I ride my bike a
lot. I run a lot. I do all those things,
but I don't want to spend every week
Think about it right now. And the NFL
and all these these platforms are
genius. We used to have football on
Saturday and Sundays. Now we got Monday
football. We got Thursday football. So
if you're someone that is not paying
attention to your own finances because
now you're spending four days a week
>> [laughter]
>> plastered to the TV to watch every game.
>> subscriptions by the way.
>> different subscriptions. And all I care
about is there's a lot of very wealthy
friends of mine that love sports and
watch it, but they're already wealthy.
If you're complaining about living
paycheck to paycheck, but you're in
every fantasy team and you know every
stat and every sport and every game
score and all of that, then you need you
have work to do. You really do. And a
lot of people just don't understand
that.
>> [laughter]
>> It's the truth. The
it's just so true. Like oh my god. Yep.
Well, in the finance world, similar to
with politics,
there's an old saying that you can't
control what happens in the White House,
but you can control what happens in your
own house. Oh, I love it. And so many
people don't realize that where they
just go about their business like think
about the average person. And this isn't
me picking. This is me hopefully nudging
them in the right direction.
They get their paycheck. They're making
good money. Saturday morning rolls
around. They don't have automation of
their investments.
They look in their bank account and
they've got $1,832
sitting in their account from their
paycheck for the last 2 weeks or
whatever it is, $926.
They're bored. They don't have a plan
for the day. So they get up and they go
to the farmers market and spend $180 on
cutie little things and some food. They
go back. They have lunch. Then they go
meet people friends and they have drinks
that day and they spend 60 bucks then.
Then they go home. They take a nap. Then
they go out that night and they go to a
dinner they probably can't afford or
shouldn't afford. It is a vicious cycle
for almost all adults. Like you think
about it seasonally. We have wedding
season coming up. You guys are at the
age where you're going to have seven
weddings this summer. Okay? So those
seven weddings, if you're not
financially stable, are going to go on
the credit card. So, then after wedding
season, you're going to spend months
trying to pay those credit cards down.
And it's going to suck, cuz you're going
to have to give up a lot. Then comes the
holiday season. So, you're going to go
spend buck wild in the holiday season
trying to be the cool uncle and the cool
friend and all that. Then you get back
to the spring, you're paying all It's a
vicious cycle most people never jump off
of to be able to set themselves up,
because the number one thing is,
especially as I get older, that I want
everyone to realize at the end of the
day, no one is going to be there to pick
you up. You have to do it yourself. You
can't rely on everyone else.
Robert, we like to end these podcasts
off with two last questions for our
guest. I'll start and Jack will take us
home.
Robert, God forbid, if me and you died
tomorrow and you could leave one last
guiding principle, one last message with
the younger generation, what would that
be?
I would say,
follow your dreams,
but you don't have to be passionate
about your dreams to make money. So,
many people say,
"If you follow your dreams, you'll never
work a day in your life."
And that's literally a quote from rich
people.
Because so many people think they need
to be doing this super impactful thing
early in their careers, and I think it's I think people early on need
to think like investors and make as much
money as they can early, so they can
enjoy life better later. So, for
everyone listening,
don't worry about following your dreams
early. Worry about making money. So,
many people get a 9-to-5 job and they
go, "Well, it's not enough." Well, guess
what? There's nights, there's weekends.
Go get a side hustle. Build up a company
on the side. Maybe it only makes you
$500 a month. Take all that $500 and
invest it. That would be the number one
most important thing for me is, you want
to follow your dreams. I'm living the
dream life now, but I created the
ability to live this life. Otherwise,
how would I sit here and film with you
guys for hours when I'm not getting paid
for it? You know what I mean? So, I
built a life where I can do exactly what
I want because at some point in
everyone's life, they have to get to a
place where they own their time 100% and
no one else can tell them what to do
with their time.
And Robert, if tomorrow was all said and
done, how would you want to be
remembered?
I would say I would want to be
remembered as a guy that always tried to
be mindful for others, treated people
like he wanted to be treated,
and always tried to give as much value
as I can because I always believe if I
provide a ton of value, the money will
always come.
And I never want to be a person that
doesn't get looked at as the guy that
just put it all out there and was always
trying to give back and do as much as he
could for the average person because not
everyone has the ability to figure all
this out on their own. There's a lot of
bad information out there. There's a lot
of people out there that are just trying
to sell people behind a paywall to help
them get rich quick.
I want to be the guy that's remembered
as this guy that just put it all out
there and provided a ton of value for
anyone that would listen. I love it.
Beautifully said. James,
>> This was an incredible episode.
>> Amazing conversation. Amazing
conversation.
>> Everybody watching right now, be sure to
like and subscribe guys for amazing
content and incredible guests we have
coming every single week to the Hard
Knocks Podcast. Just like Robert Crooke,
we're going to put the link down in the
description so that way you guys can
follow along with Robert Crooke on
social media and get access to the Rich
Habits Podcast, the Rich Habits Network.
We're also going to put a link down in
the description to join the School of
Mentors where you can get access to our
multi-millionaire and billionaire
network every single week where you can
hop on live calls with the eight, nine,
and even 10-figure entrepreneurs that we
interview on the School of Hard Knocks.
So, we can't wait to see you on the
inside. With that being said, we'll see
you in the next episode.