I used to get so frustrated taking loss
after loss trading catalysts after
reading the headline or the earnings
number thinking I knew what was going
on. I would see tons of stocks make
massive moves after earnings and it
wouldn't be the stock I was in. It
sucked. Then I learned what really moves
these names. This is a process that I
put hundreds of hours into figuring out.
And in the end, there are five things I
found really matter. Today we are going
to reveal those five checks in favor for
grading a catalyst play. And the fourth
one you're going to want to pay
attention to cuz this will make or break
your success in this play. With these
catalyst plays, we're looking for
potential year making moves. The whole
game is having the information to ignore
the maybe setups so you can focus on the
overwhelmingly clear ones. So how do we
identify these crazy clear setups? We're
going to pull back the curtain on our
process and break down how to interpret
a catalyst in detail, how to use
pre-market scanners to hunt for
institutional volume, and find these
names before the market opens. Welcome
to the Trading Floor podcast, episode
11. I'm Tim Beldin, joined as always by
Garrett Dryen. So Garrett, you were the
one last Thursday that found this trade.
It was an earnings day one in Fastley
and you found it in pre-market and
alerted our team. So, what were you
doing that morning?
>> Yeah, so Fastley was not on our radar.
It was not one of the earnings plays
that we were like anticipating looking
at. We weren't talking about it the
night before, but I have this scanner
that we used that I really love this
thing. It's so simple and we call it the
pre-market extended hours percent AVAL
scanner. And it's something we share in
Bionic Trader inside Access meetings.
Um, I talk about this all the time
because we use it and we actually found
this scanner or this particular
indicator variable that we developed
from doing some of the quant work,
right? We were testing an earnings
model. Oh, yeah. Trying to figure out
what actually mattered to these plays.
And we found that
>> the more volume as a percent of its
daily average volume the stock was doing
in the extended hours, right? So when
the report comes out in the after hours
or if it's a pre-market report, you're
just looking at the pre-market, the more
volume it was doing, the higher
probability of trending and making a
move on that day. And we actually found
that if if any of them were doing like
less than 20% of their average daily
volume, it really wasn't worth looking
at for the earnings. We saw
>> for earnings plays, right? Because they
tend to do a lot of volume. So this is
all like calibrated to earnings plays.
Would you like to gain the biggest edge
a retail trader can get? All of our
daily and weekly in-house trader
meetings are now available to you. Just
head over to smbtradingfloor.com
to find out more.
>> And so I was just looking at this
scanner. It's earning season. Think of
the earnings season. This is like how we
find names that we might want to look
into. The reason for it, the reason I
love this so much is there are so many
earnings reports to look through. like I
can't go into depth on every single
report that comes out, especially when
there's like hundreds of names reporting
all at the same time, right? So, this is
just a brilliant way of narrowing down
that focus and like finding the names
that you might want to look deeper into.
And so, sometimes we see 20%. Okay,
that's cool. Like that's something
definitely anything over 20 we'll like
look at. Sometimes we see 50%. Sometimes
we see 80%. 80%'s big huge, right? We
rarely see that.
>> Fastley was doing 200%. Like we haven't
seen this in a very long time. And
that's that's it. That's what put it put
it on our radar. I hadn't looked into
the report yet, but I put it right in
the chat being like, "We got to look
into this. What's going on here?" Um,
and that kind of snowballed, right?
Okay. Cuz then you got a hold of it and
and kind of ripped that report apart,
which was great because you kind of came
back to us pounding the table a little
bit on some of the things you were
seeing.
>> Oh yeah.
>> And there's our first check in favor.
>> Exactly. So volume is always a big one
on these catalyst plays, right? Because
>> like like why is volume to you
important? Like obviously we've studied
this on the quant side and we see that
it is. But a lot of times when we like
to actually take something and run with
it, we want to we want to sort of
connect that to something that makes
sense to us as traders. Like why does it
make sense that something needs to be
doing tons of volume in order to be
valid on one of these plays?
>> Yeah, it we found it's the best way.
There are other ways to scan for
earnings. Like you could just look at
the gap percent and then what I found is
you just look at the gap percent it
doesn't tell you enough if you're not
looking at the implied move but the
whole reason why the extended hours aval
percent aval scanner that we have works
so great is we're trying to find stocks
in play. So stocks in play are stocks
that are doing abnormal volume in the
regular trading hours. So we're really
trying to get an idea of what stocks are
the most in play. And we found there's a
pretty good correlation of the stocks
that do the most volume in after hours
and pre-market that then become in play
intraday. And that's the whole game.
>> Yeah. And like the way I kind of read
that is like we want to make sure
there's interest.
>> Yes.
>> In this report like we like obviously
institutions can't do all their business
in the pre-market like the big ones,
right? Because it's gonna might take
them days to get involved in something
that they really want to accumulate. But
we've got a lot of big institutions kind
of doing the work for us, right? They're
they've got people looking over these
reports and reporting back and you know
the the algos are on these things and
typically the names that are generating
the most interest based on that earnings
report are going to be doing the most
volume in the pre-market or after hours.
So it makes a lot of sense. It's like
just follow where the where the interest
is, right? And there was a trader that
we've talked to a ton uh for earnings
where what he would do and it was very
similar to how I think a lot of
institutions is report comes out you're
buying some off of the read through of
the report that you're doing quickly and
then you know you're buying more when it
stabilizes in after hours you're buying
more in pre-market and then the
institutions are then buying the first
like day second day third day fourth day
because it's that much volume but if you
have I don't know let's say hundreds of
institutions ions doing that and after
hours. That's the interest. That's the
significance.
>> Yeah, that's the tell. And so we want to
have high volume in the pre-market and
that's a great way to scan. We want to
have high volume once the market opens,
right? This is a key criteria for how
we're going to grade this play.
>> Volume's massive
>> and it's Yeah. And it's a great way to
find it. And it's one of the edges that
we have as discretionary traders, as
prop traders, or as retail traders,
right? We're smaller. We're not we're
not trading trillion dollars, right? So
we can get in and out. We can trade in
the pre-market. We can get our whole
position at the open. Um so that that
flexibility
of liquidity of being able to get in and
out is actually an edge that we all
have. And so we should use that, right?
Right. And so we're we're using tools to
um basically pick up on the footprints
of some of these institutions and then
we're kind of using our edge to be able
to get in and out like much quicker and
get our full position early. Um, so Tim,
I gota like what I want to ask you is
like once I handed this to you, you
really like made this trade your own and
it was it was a huge help to the team
because we both looked into the report
but we kind of looked into it in
different ways,
>> different lenses,
>> different lenses and you've you've
really developed
quite an amazing process at dissecting
some of these catalysts um that come out
because that really is like obviously
like a big component of it.
>> Do you want to sit in on all of our
daily and weekly in-house trader
meetings? There's no bigger edge retail
traders can get. Visit
smbtradingfloor.com
to learn more.
>> It's not just read the headline. Let me
um let me kind of see if they beat
right. There's a lot more that goes into
that. And we're looking at the chart,
right? We're looking at like can this
actually run? Is there room on the chart
for it to run? Is it breaking out or
does it have resistance? Does it make
sense? We're looking at the theme that
it's in. Does that actually make sense
for this type of stock to be running in
this environment, in this type of
market? So, there are a bunch of factors
that are going into um how we're going
to grade this setup, but I really want
to dive into like what you were seeing
that morning because um you were you
were super clear on this and you were
picking up on some things that I think
that like you mentioned in that intro, a
lot of beginner traders are kind of
scratching the surface on these
catalysts and not digging deeper. And I
know I used to do this too, thinking
that I understood what was going on when
really um I I knew nothing about reading
like did they beat and raise like and
you you literally barely know anything
about what's happening. So when you're
when I'm handing this off to you, what
are you what's the first thing you're
doing? Like what are the questions that
you're asking to help us figure out if
this is a catalyst play worth taking?
100%. And to start, I am looking at the
headline numbers. Like step one, I'll
look at what everyone's looking at. And
what I found is like the big difference
with really being able to analyze these
earnings reports and like actually
interpret what the read through is is a
lot of the time, and I've done this when
I started my career. So, like in terms
of getting to here, it's studying these
plays, studying examples, but so often
you get the numbers and you think, "All
right, I read the numbers and I have to
make a decision if this is a good report
or not." That's it. And you try to have
like a two-step process. And my whole
process now is like you see the numbers,
that's step one. But with earnings, like
for example here, let's even pull up um
Kurt, do you want to pull up uh image
number three? So here are the numbers
for Fastly. So like right off the bat,
you can see the percent beats. You get
an idea. They beat EPS 12 cents to 6
cents. They beat revenue 173 million to
161 million. Upside guidance, you see
that next quarter and fiscal year. Good
raise there. So right off the bat, you
get the double beaten raise. But if
you're really trying to figure out the
whole point of our A+ catalyst plays and
looking for these special changing
fundamental earnings reports isn't do
they double beat. Is this an okay like
they just beat that's a good report. You
can't just look at it in a vacuum
because what you're trying to find is an
inflection in acceleration quarter. So
by definition with acceleration, you
can't see acceleration without comparing
it to a previous quarter. So right after
I'm looking at the numbers face value,
did they beat jotting it down? Now I'm
thinking, all right, what were the last
five quarters? Because I need to build a
story of this stock. All right, so
you're looking at whether this is an
inflection quarter.
What other types of quarters are there?
because I've heard you talk about this
with the team where it's almost like
you're breaking down these quarters,
types of reports, in other words, like
into categories to simplify it for
yourself rather than thinking about like
everything's different and and this is
just kind of like a big like choose your
own adventure. I wonder if this is good.
Like you actually have sort of
categories that you put these reports
in. Can you get into that?
>> Oh yeah. Oh yeah. So, what I noticed
with looking at these reports, it's not
like you just get this inflection
quarter out of the blue, there's like a
very systematic like stage process that
these companies go through where it's
not exact science. It's not every time
like last quarter it has the first stage
and then it has its inflection then it
has the third stage but usually each
stage will precede the ladder. So, if
you're looking for the inflection
quarter, the first type of earnings
report that I'll look for is called I
called it, but it's a first clean
profitable beat quarter. So, this is the
first time they've turned profitable.
EPS could be gap or non-GAAP, but
they're making money in the first clean
profitable beat quarter. Usually, you'll
see a strong day one. Not always.
Usually it gaps up, but in order for me
to look for that inflection acceleration
quarter, I want the stock to have had a
first clean profitable beat quarter. So
those are the two right now. So it's
first clean profitable beat. Okay. Now
I'll look for the acceleration
inflection quarter. And then usually
either the quarter after or quarters
following the inflection acceleration
quarter, you'll get what I call a good
stock continuing to crush it or they're
still crushing it quarter where the
numbers are going to be huge. They're
going to have maybe even bigger percent
beats on their top and bottom line. The
revenue growth is still going to be
strong, but it's not that huge jump in
revenue growth and not that huge
acceleration in revenue growth and EPS
growth that we saw in the inflection
quarter. So, it's a good stock
continuing to crush it.
>> And those are the quarters where
sometimes the stock has run a lot and it
actually gaps way up and and kind of
sells off, right? It's like a bunch of
profit taking. That can happen
>> 100%. Um, so the the the quarter that we
really want to identify to keep things
really simple. If we're just talking
earnings plays sounds like the
inflection quarter, that acceleration
inflection quarter is the one we really
want to pinpoint, right? Like the other
ones we can trade, but like this is the
bread and butter. And if we can go
through earning season and find these,
like that's where we want to do our
business. And that that simplifies
things like quite a lot to me, at least
with the way I think because now I'm not
looking at every earnings report almost
like in its own universe trying to
decide like how good is this?
>> Exactly.
>> You know, you're you start to break it
down like into categories. It's like,
okay, has it had its first clean
profitable B quarter? Okay, when was
that? Let's go look back and see where
that Okay, that was here. This is how it
acted. Okay, good. Day one went
sideways. uh maybe the next quarter was
like a non-event and then maybe here we
are now with a big beat and raise and
the question that we're asking ourselves
is is this the acceleration inflection
quarter so and and and if it is we want
to do some business. How do we how do
you
quant how do you quantify this? Like how
do you tell if it's the acceleration
inflection quarter?
>> So the whole idea with these companies
is they turn profitable. So, they're
telling the street that they're making
money, the business model is working,
but then what you're really looking to
see is a huge jump in revenue growth
year-over-year, and you're looking at
the past quarters to be able to see
that. So, with Fastley, what was super
interesting, you get your first um we're
going back to Q4 2024. So, the revenue
growth year-over-year was 2%. They're
losing money, 3 cents a share. Next
quarter it's 8%. So massive jump. I mean
you know 300% jump there. Still not
profitable though. Then you get Q2 2025
12%. So then what is that? 50%
jump between the past two quarters.
Still not profitable. So
now we're going into Q3 2025 and this
was their first clean profitable beat
quarter. So they make seven cents. So
I'm not paying attention to the revenue
growth from Q4 2024 to Q1 2025. It's
massive, but they're still not
profitable.
But then we get this quarter where
revenue growth comes in at 23%.
So the previous jump, the rate of change
between the revenue growth in Q2 2025 to
Q3 2025 was 12 to 15%. So 25%
rate of change. Now going into this
report from last week, this is now back
to a 50 50% estimating 50% rate of
change. So huge jump in the revenue
growth aka acceleration in revenue
growth after turning profitable.
So to like why is that significant to
you? Does this does this have something
to do with those participating in this
stock are now able to project revenue
into the future and more profitability
into the future? And is that why, you
know, people aren't waiting on reports
like this and these things get so much
legs on on this type of report? I would
say exactly like with any catalyst, not
just earnings. Like the big three things
you're really trying to figure out is
like what's the surprise factor? How
much did this catch the street off
guard? Then you're trying to decide how
much more future revenue visibility do
we now get in the stock? And then third,
is this a catalyst that's going to cause
the street to rerate the stock and the
valuation isn't right. So with the
revenue growth, it's a big one for
number two there where you see the
revenue growth usually it depends on the
sector but this could be in the form of
RPO. are like their remaining
obligations. This could be their backlog
like growing at accelerating rate. But
the idea is they're not just making
money. That last quarter, the first
clean profitable beat quarter wasn't a
random one-off quarter. Like they're
sustainably making money and now they
can see in the future that revenue
growth is accelerating and they're going
to make even more money.
>> All right, great. Let's throw the chart
up.
>> Yeah. Um slide slide number five please
Kurt just so we can we can get a little
um you know this is like a work of art a
little bit like just so we can see what
this thing did. Um you know breaking out
of a nice little base there. It still it
still has resistance. You can't see it
on this chart but ran like 90% on day
one um including the gap and then had a
nice follow through on day two. It's
exactly the kind of action we want to
see. Um, the thing that jumps out to me
is that volume like we talked about
earlier, right? It's like the by far the
biggest volume bar on the chart. That's
that's a hallmark of a play like this.
You rarely ever see a move like this
without that volume. Um, what I like
about our process is that you can you
can kind of see that volume before it
happens because obviously that candle
closes and you see that big volume bar.
I don't really see that volume in the
morning, but looking at that pre-market
volume in terms of its average daily
volume, seeing that it was printing 200%
between the after hours and the
pre-market that morning, I remember
talking to some traders who were looking
at this saying, "Yeah, I think I'll
trade it if it does pretty good arval
like in the morning, you know, then I'll
look at it." And I remember saying
it's going to print really high arval.
Like we already knew that because of
this indicator because if it's doing
200% in the pre-market in the after
hours, it's going to it's going to do a
lot when the market opens. And when it
did open, I mean, it was doing 3040
arvol,
>> which is huge. 30 40 times its average
volume at least like right off in the
morning. And you know, and it just
exploded out of the gates, which is
exactly what you want to see. So, I just
wanted to highlight this chart because
this is this is really like a beauty.
Um, but the thing that that I'm so
interested in a play like this and and
the more we trade this because this is a
very specific playbook like this is an
earnings play. Um, the broader category
would be this is a catalyst play. So, we
have a certain way, a certain operation
around a catalyst play, a certain way of
trading it, and a certain way of grading
it, like figuring out, are we going to
take it? Figuring out how much risk
we're going to put on, is this really,
really good, or is this just kind of
good? And the thing with this play is
like so much of that work happens before
the market opens. And so, like
everything that you just went over, you
can know before the market opens. And
everything that we talked about with the
volume, we can know before the market
opens. So this is just like a classic
stock selection situation. Like we
always talk about how important stock
selection is with with with the most
important inputs that we'll be talking
about today that went into determining
whether we wanted to take this and the
grade of the setup were all known before
the market opened. Now, of course, we
want that price action to confirm our
thesis. Like, we're always looking for
the market to tell us that we're right.
And so, of course, we want to see that
price action and the volume when the
market opens. But there's a lot of power
in knowing what stock you're watching
right off the open because I think I
bought this thing on like the first
two-minute bar because it broke that
pre-market high. Um, this is not the
kind of name that I would want to be
caught off guard on and and say like
halfway through the day have someone
say, "Oh my god, did you see Fastley
today? Like this thing ripped." Right?
Like that's that's what we're trying to
avoid with this kind of process. Um,
what are so like I want to get into more
of what we did in the pre-market before
we start talking about like how we
traded it and like looking at that
intraday chart because I think that's
just so important because we really teed
this thing up and had plans of putting
like x amount of risk on if you know x y
and z happened like you know by probably
nine o'clock like as a team.
So, what are the other things we're
looking at? We're looking at the chart.
We want to make sure it can run. What
else? What What are What are the other
factors here?
>> Here's a mindbending stat for you. SMB
traders have 20x to 40x higher odds of
success than independent traders. Find
out why and how to greatly increase your
odds by visiting smbtradingfloor.com.
So just to even reiterate like the
catalyst is one check in favor. We're
grading this an A+ catalyst. So that's
one check in favor. Then we're looking
at the higher time frame technicals. So
right now we're just looking at the
daily. Um but this is a stock that ran
in COVID got sold insanely hard on the
weekly and now had a nice weekly base at
near the lows. So, it was breaking out
of this weekly base and above this
weekly breakout level. So, we have our
higher time frame technicals check in
favor. But even, you know, I'm bringing
the catalyst to the table. That's just
one piece of the pie. So, then we're
thinking like whenever you see that
revenue growth, like it's super
important to then ask another question.
So, like the whole idea is you keep
digging deeper, but you see that growth
and you're like, well, how are they
doing it? You know, like what's
changing? like how are they making
so much more money, you know, how is
their top line so much better? Then you
start getting into the theme, which is
another check in favor, which you did a
lot of work on with this, but the idea
is you want to have an idea of like,
yeah, what's going on? Like this is an
inflection quarter. Why?
>> Yeah, absolutely. It's like you see that
growth and you want like what's the
reason for that growth? Like that's
that's something I'm always interested
in
>> because especially in a market like
this,
>> right?
>> Oh yeah. I mean, talk about a theme
market.
>> Yeah. It's I mean, we like how how split
is this market right now? And of course,
like everyone's talking about it. Like I
feel like dispersion is like the word of
the year and like everyone's talking
about
>> that and and but it's true, right? Like
we've got some themes and some some
groups that are running. We've got some
that are just completely dying out. And
a lot of it has to do with that AI
disruption, right? So,
>> oh yeah,
>> think things that you can um you can
touch and feel and drop on your foot are
running things that can't be um
disrupted like airlines and and
cheeseburgers, but you've got software
just taking it to the chin because the
whole market is just completely freaking
out. And I it seems like nobody really
knows yet because I mean they're selling
the whole basket. It's like there's no
software name that's going to survive.
I'm sure something will, but like it's
like no one knows what's going on right
now. So, let's just sell all the all the
enterprise software software as a
service names are just getting crushed.
Um, let's buy oil and infrastructure,
you know,
>> and John Deere and and and McDonald's
and and airlines, right? Um, so it
really matters
where you are in this market, right? And
that's that was at the forefront of my
mind this morning when we were going
over this because when we saw that big
beat, I'm thinking, okay, like I haven't
really traded Fastly in a while. Do I
even remember what they do? But of
course, I went to our theme tracker um
our notion database which has um lists
of of all the themes in the market and
we do a we do a really thorough job of
compiling these baskets down to you know
all like all the software themes like
enterprise and and gaming and and and
you know digital infrastructure which
would be like you know data centers and
um edge computing and and cloud and
networking And you know, I could go on
and on, right? Um,
>> I want to stop you real quick or you
could keep going. I wanted to say this
one was even crazier in terms of theme.
It was so misinterpretive what theme
Fastly was in and you cleared that up
for everyone, but a lot of people
thought it was software. All right,
continue. A lot of people thought yeah a
lot of people thought it was suffer
because traditionally Fastly is cloud
which is very closely tied to software
because in you know initially cloud was
cloud computing was really for software
because software was the big thing that
was the application I'm already saying
was as if software is dead that's that's
sad
this is probably the like just buy
software now is probably in the bottom
right Um but but cloud is
infrastructure.
Cloud is not software as a service. It's
not enterprise software. It's not the
application. It's the infrastructure
that allows for things like software to
occur and also things like AI to occur.
So if we break down the taxonomy and
this is why I love tracking our themes
because it makes it crystal clear is
that like cloud infrastructure is not
under software even though it's linked
to software it's under digital
infrastructure
along with all of the other um physical
infrastructure that is being built in
order to enable artificial intelligence.
So, a lot of people thought it was
software. It's not. But if you look
deeper in that report, and this is what
I was finding that morning while you
were looking at all the numbers, and I
knew you would do that, so I didn't even
get into it. Um, I was asking the
question like, why did they beat? So,
where do you go? Well, you usually it's
the conference call, right? The CEO is
going to like tell a story. So, I'm
looking for the story. I'm trying to
answer the question where does Fastley
fit in to our theme taxonomy and
therefore the overall market like this
entire disruption that we're seeing is
it a winner or a loser? where is it
positioned in all of this craziness that
we've been seeing? And the CEO was
talking about how a large part of their
acceleration and their beat was due to
their edge computing component
>> and that got me excited like bells
started to go off because and he even
said like this should scale with AI and
and we already know this because we've
been tracking edge computing. Now, this
is a theme that hasn't gotten hot yet.
It's not like currently on the tip of
everybody's tongue, but it's a theme
that we're tracking because
it belongs under that digital
infrastructure category. It's a theme of
names like AKAM, AAM, um NE,
um AET, like these are all names that
are also in the theme. Macam's like one
of the leaders that are helping enable
the inference to operate away from the
data center. So that might mean in a
device, that might mean in a car. It
just means if you need that inference to
happen really fast, you can't wait for
that signal to get all the way to from
the data center to where you are. Like
so a car is perfect example, right? Like
it needs to make a decision quickly. So
the more AI
story expands and it gets beyond just
the llm on our browsers, right? It gets
into our devices and in our cars and in
that story in robots, that story starts
to um develop and accelerate.
Theoretically,
edge computing demand should increase
because that's what is enabling all of
that stuff. And so if a big part of
their beat and acceleration was due to
their edge computing component because
this isn't an edge computing theme and
they're traditionally a cloud company
which is also infrastructure, they're
clearly not software. They're clearly
not into in that category that's being
cannibalized by AI. Instead, they're
theoretically in a category that should
be growing with AI expansion. So that
alone made me feel a lot more interested
in this because not only did there did
they beat tremendously, but they beat in
a way that aligns with the way the
market is acting right now, which is
rewarding infrastructure and rewarding
those names that are either a immune to
AI disruption or b
helping it or joining it with AI, right?
and they're they're punishing names that
are
>> that they're worried about being
cannibalized by AI. G, do you remember I
think it was either maybe our fourth
episode when we were talking about the
data centers and we were talking about
our notion with our themes and that was
like right when we were just starting
like digging at the surface for edge
computing and we're like oh this could
have like real applications in the
future because you needed to have it
happen on the edge
>> which is what you're saying closest to
the source and then there's even like
stuff about maybe this has a role in
medicine later on because it's like
confidentiality
But I don't know if you remember, we
talked about edge computing at the end
of one of those earlier episodes and we
do the work for this like
>> yeah this is why we do the work. We we
did an episode on themes and why it's
valuable to track themes and I think we
called out edge computing as something
to keep an eye on because you know it's
fun to do like this is the like this is
great like we we get to look we get to
learn
>> like a little bit about everything like
that's what I love about trading is like
we're not we're not experts in anything
but we know like a like a tiny bit about
like a million different things
>> mile wide inch deep tracking tracking
these themes is is a blast because it's
wild especially in these times and so um
I mean it's really dumb like you just
you just it's it's super meta too
because you're just going on AI to kind
of do some research about
AI disruption but you know ask ask chat
GBT or Gemini or cloud or whatever
whatever you
>> perplexity comment assistant
>> perplex yeah you know just just have a
they'll chat about it like hey what what
could be some disruptions down the line
like if AI expands in this way like what
certain technologies might become hot
themes right and these these are the
simple questions to ask and you start to
do some research into those names to
kind of verify and you're like oh yeah
this is cool I we might as well track
this who knows
>> you know what was a cool tidbit with
this too is you do the work on the
themes and we're like oh net is a big
competitor and then go back to
interpreting the catalyst what was an
interesting
aspect of this report was you look at
the valuation difference between Fastley
and Net and Fastley was trading at three
and a half time sales and net was at 25
times sales. So to answer that third
question, does the street need to rerate
this stock? Is there a potential for a
rerating? You see the valuation gap and
you're like, oh yeah, maybe like
definitely could have a rerating.
>> So even that's where the theme helped me
at the end. Like I did a little work
after you saw Net.
>> Oh, right. Because you never would have
compared it to Net if you if you weren't
thinking edge compute
>> and you you're thinking a different
theme where like at first too I was like
just making sure double checking it
wasn't an IGV. Like that was my first
order of business,
>> right? Yeah. We can't we're not allowed
to buy anything in IGV for a good six
months.
>> Give it a sec.
>> That's not true. That's not true. We
were probably trying to bounce it.
>> But the theme is super important. And
then honestly the last part
>> that we talked about that morning was
the market environment we which we were
in which is our last check in favor.
>> So at this point like we're grading this
an A+ right.
>> Yeah.
>> But then we're looking at the market
environment and we're looking at how
other earnings plays have followed
through. How have breakouts been
trading? What's the market behavior and
what do we gleam there?
these earnings names have not been
working. Yeah. Like a lot of the a lot
of the gap ups have been failing. I mean
breakouts in general have been tough.
And of course like this comes with a
huge caveat because it matters where you
are. I mean
>> I could sit here and say breakouts are
not working. And then if you're like an
oil trader, you're like what are you
talking about? Right? So it's that's not
necessarily true. But, you know,
generally like growth stocks, tech
stocks, like they've been, you know, the
Q's have been stuck in a big range and
um we haven't seen a lot of these big
inflection quarters this quarter in tech
stocks and a lot of these day ones have
been kind of rough. So just from an
environmental market behavior
standpoint, that was really the only
factor of this trade to your point that
wasn't kind of all systems go, right?
And we were we were keeping that in mind
because I mean I don't think we'd
>> we'd had like a we haven't been really
taking many of these, but like the last
few we took were,
>> you know, were kind of duds and a lot of
the things we've been watching have been
kind of duds. So that factors into it.
like the environment is pretty big. So
we so that downgraded it to an A when we
>> when we find when we got the final grade
which which happens
>> and swing trading in general has just
been very difficult
>> and this is a swing trade for us
>> but we'll talk yeah we could get into
the actual execution because there's
many ways to play a stock and play like
this but what were you gonna say?
>> Well so so just to review so we've gone
we've touched on the five things now.
Yeah. So, we had we had the volume. So,
that's pre-market.
Checking that in the pre-market and then
seeing once the market opens, we want to
see that volume there. And we'll we'll
talk more about the intraday stuff. Um,
we want to look at the the higher time
frame chart to make sure that there's
room to run and that there's some kind
of like a base breakout. We want to look
at the numbers of the report to identify
whether this was an inflection quarter,
right? Look for that acceleration. to
see that we've already had our first
clean profitable beat and that this is
now the inflection quarter. And then we
want to understand what's the story,
what's the theme, where does this fit in
to how the market is behaving and and
which themes are hot and which themes
are getting slam dunked. And then we
look at the overall environment as an
overlay to just kind of check ourselves
to make sure that like in a super hot
environment this would have been A+.
>> Oh yeah, 100%.
>> Um Kirk, could you bring up please slide
number six? Let's let's check out the
intraday action cuz I I don't want to
gloss over how important it is for us to
let the market kind of tell us that
we're right because I mean we're sitting
here kind of pounding the table and and
we were pounding the table that morning
and you did a great job of that. Um, and
it and it is there is a lot of power in
the pre-market prep around this as we're
kind of outlining, but at the same time,
I mean, we've been wrong a million
times. So,
>> Oh, yeah.
>> We can't just we can't just go on that.
We want the market to tell us that we're
right. So,
>> what happened that that this morning
that that told us that we were right
because it happened pretty early on
>> and for our joint, that's how we went
into the trade. It's like you have high
conviction. We need price action to
confirm. But yeah, right off the open,
we get a huge candle. A ton of volume
comes in and you see that volume come in
in the first two-minute bar and it
breaks above the pre-market high. So
that's the first confirmation signal for
us.
>> Yeah.
>> And then it doesn't fade. It doesn't
just like wick the high. Volume keeps
coming in and we get a massive first
two-minute bar.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And on a lot of these that
run, I've noticed, and we've studied
these, like you get a you get a power
ignition candle like right off the open.
Like you don't always do. There are
there are great day like swing trades
that don't start that way. But what I've
learned is if you do get that and it
holds and doesn't just stuff and does
great volume and follows through like
you there the the probability that we've
got a runner on our hands is like much
higher especially backed by all the
things that we've kind of gone over
because you've got a bunch of
institutions that are piling in at the
open, right? you've got that opening
imbalance and you've got that first like
we always look at that like first
two-minute candle and like the volume
that that first two-minute candle did.
And when we see that, we've seen so many
examples of these earnings plays where
it just goes off the open and we
actually like that. Like we're not
afraid to chase something like that
because it should go much higher.
>> And we've seen on the high short
interest names that they tend to do that
more often as well. And this was I
believe 12 or 13%. Was it I think 13.
Yeah. Percent short float.
>> Yeah. Which is a good That's a good
bonus factor for a trade like this.
>> Exactly. Kind of just like alludes to
the explosiveness
potentially.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's not it's not
necessary. Like it's not something we
always look at because sometimes these
are just great plays, but they don't
have it. But if they do, I think what I
found in studying these is that it can
really open up a great day one when it
has like a higher short interest. like
it doesn't speak as much necessarily to
like the full trend like on the daily
chart, but you see a lot of these day
one these massive day ones with with
high short interest names.
>> Have you heard this study of tens of
millions of traders which shows that
only 1% of retail traders actually make
it? Don't be a statistic. Visit
smbtradingfloor.com
to greatly increase your odds. So yeah,
we get that pre-market high break and at
that point we're like, "Oh, this is game
on. This confirmed our conviction
level." We were right on this read
through. The volume's proving it. The
price action's proving it. So then it
became a game of how do we want to
accumulate a position for the swing
trade for our catalyst play setup. So
one spot I know you bought Garrett was
the pre-market high break. So that was
the first spot and then at that point it
has a pretty big opening drive and what
we did to execute was just looking to
get involved on dips. We got some on
that opening drive and then we were like
let's continue accumulating and building
this position on dips. So you can kind
of see those dips back to the VWAP area.
There's like three pretty significant
ones and that's where we were building
in our swing position with stock and
also our mentorship program. you know,
we've been doing the there's also a play
to use uh calls that someone did later
on, which was interesting, but we're
executing. We were just using stock.
>> Yeah. And what I thought was great about
Cam, who's a member of our team on this
play,
everyone's got different strengths. And
Cam's great with price action and he's a
really good active trader. And like he
might not be looking into the report at
the same depth like the EU are for
instance, and therefore he might not be
pounding the table quite as much in the
pre-market. like he might be deferring
to you like, "Okay, this is definitely
what we're watching. I tr you know, like
I I trust you. I've seen you've seen you
do this a million times." But he is
waiting to for that confirmation. And
what was great about this morning was I
remember Cam who was kind of quiet about
all this in the pre-market. Like we knew
he was on board, but not everybody,
everyone has different roles, right? So
it was like you were really pounding the
table before the market opened. like
guys, this could be this could be a
really big play. Um, here's the grade.
This is what I'm thinking. This is why.
That was great.
Didn't hear as much from Cam. He's just
like, "Okay, cool." Market opens, it
explodes, pulls back, and then holds.
And you could see after a big explosion
like this, it started to hold on the
tape above VWAP.
And the market was really weak. And this
was way stronger than the market. And
Cam just you could see he just woke up
like out of a slumber like we hadn't
heard him at all and he goes, "Guys,
Fastley's acting really well. We need to
be getting a lot bigger than we are
right now." And it was like it was a
great moment because like he wasn't
saying anything about risk or size
until that point. And then all of a
sudden like a flip a switch got flipped
and he was just like, "Guys, this is it.
Like this is working. like let's get
let's get this thing.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's great. It's great to have
communication like that with like people
with different different skills. It's
kind of the the point of having a pod.
>> And at the same point, yeah, we have a
team of four. Shane was in there also
using his price action trading skills,
executing a good amount for us as well.
But it really helps having a team
because yeah, compounding the table
intraday really helped us get up to the
risk we wanted.
Yeah, then there was a great day trade
out of that first consolidation above
VWAP. Um, that was a place to add to the
swing. That's where I added. Um, I think
that like if you're scalping it, like
the great part about this is like even
if you're not a swing trader, I think
you can do all of the same analysis for
this kind of a play to understand the
tailwind that something like this might
have and then you're just scalping it to
the long side. And this certainly
offered like plenty of opportunities to
do so after it went sideways for that
period of time above VWAP as you know it
showed tremendous relative strength
while the market sold off.
>> You're talking about that wedge breakout
after the two three higher lows.
>> Exactly. And you know it it starts to
turn up takes out highs and then it
trended you know for for almost the rest
of the afternoon
>> off of that. So, I thought that was a
great spot to to add to the swing or to
just be trading it. Um, and the tape was
really active. The the spread was really
narrow. You could tell there was a lot
of order flow. Like it was that kind of
thing, right? And like sometimes you
don't get like that much of an active
tape on some of these earnings plays. It
kind of depends upon the name. Um, but
this one this one kind of had
everything, you know, especially once
the market opened. So you could have
got, you know, you could really control
your risk in this play. Like it was
tight.
>> That was my biggest uh review point of
this trade actually where like you said,
you can control your risk. This gave a
great intraday opportunity where I was
mainly focused on the catalyst play and
the swing trade, but that consolidation
break above VWAP is a spot where you can
double your profits taking that as a
separate trade in an active intraday
trade. So that was my biggest review
point. And then the other aspect of this
trade that I thought was interesting
was when the market gives you so much on
day one where this is a swing trade but
we were taking profits because this is a
huge day one move. One of the biggest
we've ever seen.
>> Yeah, it was. And and you're right about
that intraday opportunity. And that's
the kind of thing that you just don't
know in the pre-market if you're going
to get like you don't know if if the
stock's going to give it to you, right?
And you just got to take what the market
gives you. So, if you're watching this
name, you're definitely watching the
right name. And I think that like to
your point with the review, you know,
you've you've nailed the potential of
this kind of play by doing all that work
in the pre-market.
Then you're seeing it confirm telling
you that you're right. But then there's
like another level where now it's like
setting up intraday in really tight ways
with tons of order flow, giving you
another opportunity that nobody knew was
going to happen and making like a really
really great day trade. Like to your
point like you can get a lot of size on
that wedge break with a pretty tight
stop and moves in your favor immediately
and like trends trends for the rest of
the afternoon. So that that was a great
play all around. Um so
yeah yeah yeah so look we
in in the bionic trader meetings in
inside access we are sharing this
percent aval indicator that helps us
find these types of names so so join us
um we are on Spotify now for those of
you who just watch us on YouTube check
us out on Spotify
it's the same exact episode but on
Spotify and we will be back with you
next week. Have a great week of trading.
