We went through 500 AI tools to discover
the top nine to blow up your business,
help you make money if you've got no
money in 2026. This is Seph, an AI
expert who teaches entrepreneurs how
they can build businesses that generate
thousands of dollars with AI. So, what
are we going to teach people today?
We're going to teach people how to use
the latest AI tools to actually launch
their own businesses.
 And didn't you also promise $1,000 for
someone to start using these tools to
start a business?
Yeah, let's go give away $1,000 to
whoever uses these AI tools and actually
launches something.
 Put the link in the comment down below.
so we can see the product live. You have
to focus and learn about AI because AI
is not going to take your job, but those
using AI will. Let's [music] go. Tool
number one, what is it?
 Okay, awesome. Tool number one is just
AI chatbots. I'm sure you've used chat
GPT, but there's a lot of them out
there. And I want to go over each one of
these. Whichever one you choose, it's
fine. It's great. But they're each
particularly good at a specific thing
that I want to go over. One is Gemini.
So Gemini is Google's AI model. It's
also a chatbot just like chat GPT.
Gemini is particularly good because it's
multimodal. Now, what does that mean?
It's really good at taking in video,
taking in photos, and analyzing it. You
can drop your YouTube video link in
there, tell us to analyze the entire
video for you and give you feedback,
things like that. It's better than
chatpt. Then we have another one called
Claude. Claude is particularly good at
doing software. If you're writing any
code, Claude chatbots are the best and
it's typically the smartest model out
there. So, if you have anything that
requires a lot of deep thinking, Claude
is the one you want to go to. The other
one is Llama from Facebook. Their AI
model is great if you need speed. It's
not as smart as the other ones, but if
you needed to to respond super quickly,
Llama is the one you want to go to. And
then the other one is Grock. Grock is
great if you have some questions that
you're asking that are kind of you need
unfiltered responses for that other chat
bots won't answer. Grock will answer
anything. And then the last one is chat.
Chat is great. It's really great general
purpose. It kind of encapsulates all of
these different ones and has a really
good user experience. So any of these
that you're using, they're great. Just
know that there are a little bit of
differences to all of them. So I want to
build a product right now together for
the audience. And since most of your
audience is people who are non-technical
launching businesses maybe for the first
time. Let's just go ahead into chat GPT
and ask what are some of the biggest
problems um that these founders face in
the first time trying to launch a
business. And a great place to look for
ideas to solve is Reddit because people
love to go on Reddit and rant about
problems that they have in their life.
And that's where you want to launch a
business, right? We're going to speak to
it and we're going to say, "Can you go
through Reddit for me and find some of
the problems that first time business
founders might have?"
 So, we'll type that in. We'll hit enter
and we can see the number one problem
seems like building somebody nobody
wants is what people face. So, what do
you think? We can build a product that
people put their ideas into and it'll
analyze if this is a good idea or not
that people might potentially want. Does
that sound good?
Sounds great.
 Awesome. Now, we want to build a
product. So, this is the second tool.
Now tool number two level is great for
launching software. Even if you have
zero technical experience, you can get a
software business up. So I'm going to
tell it, hey, can you build us a tool
where I can enter a business idea and
then you analyze that business idea and
give me a rating from A to F of how good
that idea is and break it up into
sections and for each of the sections
give me a rating as well. So as simple
as that, we can type that in and hit
enter and levelable is going to start
generating that product for us. As
simple as that. Now it takes some time.
It's not just one prompt that you put in
and your whole app is built. It'll come
out with some errors. You'll have to ask
to fix it. But I have seen real people
launch businesses and start making
thousands of dollars just like this. So,
it's definitely possible.
 I also think your prompt, by the way,
when you say A to F, you probably need
to say F being the highest grade, A
being the worst grade. You need to give
a bit more parameters like that, right?
100%. The prompting is everything. And
we actually have a prompt guide that we
have to share with the audience of how
to put in your first prompt into the
Are we going to show it here or you
going to want link down below? We we'll
we can leave a link down below people to
click it when they're building their
product. A lot of people think the AI
isn't working well, but you got to treat
it like an employee. If you don't give
your employee all the context of what
you want to build, it's not going to
build it, right? Right. Same thing with
AI. If you give it the right context,
it's going to build it. Correct. And it
looks like our level product is ready as
well here. So, we can take a look. We
can try it out. Do you have a business
idea? We can pitch it.
How about a YouTube channel educates
people about business?
What do you think of a YouTube channel
that educates people about business?
Awesome. It it gave your business a C,
Simon. So, we might have to prompt this
a little bit more. maybe doesn't know
who I am.
So tool number three, what have we got?
 Tool number three, if you saw earlier, I
wasn't typing in anything into lovable.
I was speaking it in. Typically, people
type at 50 to 60 words per minute on
average, but we speak at 200 50 words
per minute. So it is a lot faster to
speak into these tools than to type. And
the AI tool that's great for this is
called Whisper. What's nice about
Whisper as well compared to other ones
is it does the formatting of the text
for you. If you pause, if you have ums
and a it'll cut it all out. If you have
numbers, it will create numbers lists um
and add quotations around anything you
need. So, Whisper is really great for
just speeding up your workflows.
Again, guys, we'll put the links to all
of these platforms down below. If you
click them, we'll actually get affiliate
income, which means we can fund even
more dreams, but the links are down
below for all of these things we're
going to talk to about today.
 Now, another thing I want to share is
you want to make sure your sites look
good. A lot of stuff, if people realize
it's AI generated, then they don't take
it as seriously because it seems like
you didn't put a lot of effort into it.
And one great way to do that is this
tool. It's not actually an AI tool, but
it's called 21st.dev, and they have a
ton of different website designs that
you can steal and throw right into
Lovable. So, for example, if I wanted
this robot on my site to make it a
little bit cooler, I could just come on
to here, hit this button to copy the
prompt, paste it into Lovable, add this
robot, and it's going to upgrade our
design. So, this is how you can take
your designs to the next level so it
doesn't look so AI.
 I also think, by the way, uh, branding
tools. So, like I I use Fiverr. There's
some really high quality designers on
there and I create branding for my
businesses. is I actually think that's
really important as well. Branding
stands out, makes it look realistic and
real.
 That is great. And that ties right into
our next tool, Google image generation
with Nano Banana. Sometimes you want
some ideas to come up with before you
send it maybe to Fiverr for somebody to
work on. And Gemini's Nano Banana is the
best tool right now for generating
images. So, we're going to go ahead and
generate a logo for the business we just
created using AI. So, we'll head over to
Gemini. You can come down to the bottom
and activate this banana tool that's
specifically for creating images. Do you
have any idea for what you want the logo
to look like?
Let's say a logo for dream
um dream ideas that will inspire people
to go for their dreams.
 Perfect. So, um we'll hit enter for
that.
 You can use AI to give the designers you
hire on Fiverr an idea of what you want.
It will give everyone a quick quick
idea.
 Exactly. Exactly. I think a lot of
Fiverr people now because this takes
iteration. You have to put this in a lot
of times, figure out what's good and
maybe your Fiverr editor actually uses
this tool to help launch what you're
doing. So, awesome. There we go.
Like I hate that idea.
 This looks terrible.
I absolutely hate it. Yeah. So, so um
 again, it's all in the prompting. So, if
we wanted to look more simplistic, we
could
make it look and make it look feel more
like an Apple logo.
Okay. Make it look more like an Apple
logo. And what's awesome about this as
well, it's not just logos. We could take
the logo it creates and put it on a
bunch of t-shirts. Make um film a
warehouse with a bunch of people wearing
the t-shirts. Whatever you want to do,
this can generate. We can get Elon Musk
with a logo on his shirt and use that as
like meme advertising. There we I think
that looks a lot better than the
previous one at least. Still leaves
work.
 But anyway, it's a start.
It's It's a start and and if you prompt
it right, you could get a lot closer to
what you actually want. Next tool is
Hunen and 11 Labs. It's two tools
actually. I'm combining it into one.
This allows you to fully clone yourself.
Hen and 11 Labs is an awesome combo to
clone yourself. I've seen social media
influencers take a week off of social
media and use this AI clone and it
actually works and they continue getting
views.
So, show me how you do it quickly for
people listening if they wanted to clone
themselves.
 Yeah, great point. The first thing
you're going to do is you're going to
come over to avatars right here. I've
already created a few, but you're going
to hit new look and then you're going to
hit upload videos or photos. So, let's
try it here. We're going to hit record
now. So, now we're starting. I'm going
to look directly at the camera and I'm
going to continue speaking for the next
2 minutes. You can say anything you
want.
Perfect. So, we went ahead and recorded
for just about 2 minutes and we're going
to hit use footage. And then it takes us
to our AI studio. And it's super simple
what you're going to do from here. All
you need to do is type in a script of
what you want your clone to say and it's
going to create it. Okay, nice. The
video seems like it's done processing.
So now we can come up here and hit
generate. You can put a title. You can
pick the resolution. I'm just going to
hit submit. All right, seems like our
video is ready. Let's see it. Hi Simon's
viewers. I hope that after this video
you get up and actually try using these
tools to launch something. Otherwise,
you are not really learning anything. So
as you can see, the facial gestures are
really similar to mine. The voice isn't
mine, but that's because we selected
something else. If you use 11 Labs to
clone your face as well, then you can
get really realistic AI clones fully of
yourself.
This is great. You can create a lot of
ads with this, too. You don't even have
to use your own face. They have avatars
you can use. There are so many Tik Tok
ads up right now that you don't even
realize are AI and have millions of
views.
 So, get get using that tool. Don't be
lazy. Go try it out. Next, what we're
teaching people,
this one is the most technical tool out
of the list here, which is Naden. This
is a AI orchestration tool. What does
that mean? It allows you to link all of
these different AI tools that we're
talked about today and link them
together to create a workflow. So I
could have it so that it reads a new
blog article when it gets posted. It
creates a AI generated video and
automatically posts it to my Tik Tok and
my Instagram accounts all without me
touching anything. This allows you to
set up that automation. So this is great
for because once you build your product,
you have to get distribution as you know
like social media and your audiences
everything.
How do these platforms make money
generally? I mean are they using our
data and and like Facebook does and
making money that way or or they all in
experimental stage and not what what's
the general
good question. So a lot of them are on a
subscription basis. Naden actually is
open source so you could use it for
completely free but you have to host it
on a computer somewhere and they charge
for that. So if you want to skip all the
technical details they charge you like
$10.
So they're making money from the
hosting. That's that's their business
model. I think it's quite important for
people to understand each person's
business model as a platform so you know
what you're getting yourself into right.
So yeah
 100%. Tool number eight is Granola.
You're going to have a lot of meetings
with a lot of different people when you
launch a product. Granola is a great app
that lets you transcribe those meetings
and take notes without you having to
lift any finger. And what's nice about
this compared to other tools, a lot of
other tools, it has a bot join into your
Zoom or your Google Meets. This doesn't
join the call. So, you have to make sure
you tell whoever you're with that your
meeting is being recorded. Uh if you
want to be fair to them, the nice thing
about this is as well, it processes all
the data locally with AI. So, nobody
else ever gets that information from the
meeting.
 Yeah. that again I want people to
understand that side of it too cuz in
this AI excitement
there are a lot of accidental scams
happening and these tools we've
recommending them because we know
they're not scams
and that's another thing you know that's
why I think this list is quite important
to so people know they can trust them
but equally keep an update on their
privacy policies as they change and
check the privacy policies before you
tick and agree like do a bit of due
diligence so you understand the risks
you're taking when you're using these
tools and again I know a lot of people
using chat GPT to tell it very personal
things. This is a company that runs this
data behind the scenes. If they think
they can make money out of that
knowledge, they will. So, just be a bit
careful.
Great advice. And then tool number nine
is Notebook LM. This is We talked about
chatbots earlier. Google's Gemini
chatbot has a tool called Notebook LM.
What this is really nice about is you
can upload all of your PDFs, link all of
your Google Docs, all of your Google
Slides, any information you have in
about your company, you can upload it
here and then your AI knows all about
it. And we talked earlier about how
prompting it is everything. You don't
have to constantly explain your business
over and over to these chatbots. They
know about your business. You can just
go in there and ask whatever question
you have that day and they already know
everything about your business. So that
that's one thing that's great about
notebook alone.
If you build something that has value,
you will get value. If you want your
dream to come true, help someone else
with their dream. Good luck. Thank you
so much. And we're going to have to have
some chicken now. See you later.