The key to getting rich isn't what
you've been told. It isn't working 18 hours a day or having some perfect
morning routine. It's actually about building simple habits. Tiny habits that
compound over time and make success almost inevitable. I'm Simon Squib. I
built 19 companies and sold three for more money than I'll ever need. And
today I'm sharing the 10 habits that actually made me rich. Habits you can
start applying right now to make your life better. So, let's go. The first
thing you need to learn is keep it simple. Our brains, especially when
we're building something we love or want to build something we love, will over
complicate it. Complexity kills ideas. Simplicity builds momentum. So, here are
the four ways to keep it simple. Start with one clear painoint that you can
solve. When I built Help Bank, all I really wanted to do was make sure that
was a trusted location you could go to for all your business knowledge and
insights. I just focused on business. I just focused on credible knowledge and I
made it really simple. That's why it worked. Number two, cut out every extra
feature or idea that distracts you. Amazon started by just selling books.
You don't need to make the product from day one have every single feature. If
you're building a digital platform, for example, one killer feature can be it.
That's all you need. Number three, focus on earning $1 before you try to earn a
million dollars. I know everybody wants to earn a million dollars. I get it.
I've earned a million dollars plus. I get how exciting that is. But I've
earned a million dollars a month in my career by earning $1 first by earning
$1. By taking a product and selling it, be it a service or an actual physical
thing, and making $1 profit. Once you've figured out how to make $1, take a
t-shirt, put your pattern on it, and then sell it for a dollar profit. Once
you've figured out to do that, then you can scale up. Too many people want to
scale up from day one, and they don't keep it simple. Number four on the list,
explain your idea to an 8-year-old. Now, my son is eight. When I tried to tell
him what help bank was, I simply said, "You press a button, you get help. You
press a button, you give help." He gets it instantly. People don't have time to
listen to your long explanation of what the idea is or what you're trying to
achieve. Keep it simple. I want to fix the education system. That's it. I don't
have to explain anymore. Right? I think people need to boil their idea down to a
sentence. Keep it super simple. The next thing I want to teach you is do one
thing well. The mastery beats the multitasking. It's not as easy as it
sounds. And let me go through four ways that I do it. Number one, pick one
product or service and make it world class. WhatsApp started with just
messaging, not stories and calls and payments. That can all come later. But
you want that killer feature, that thing that people tell other people about.
Number two, avoid shiny object syndrome. Say no more than yes. Quite often we're
bombarded with the latest thing. Right now, of course, it's AI. By the time
you're watching this video, a year from now, who knows? It will be some 3D
reality stuff. The point is you have to focus in on the problem you're solving
and the one thing you can do well to solve that problem. So say no to things
even if it's trendy or cool. Number three, create a repeatable system before
adding new products. Once you've got this feature working, this thing that
people are going to tell other people about, then you can start adding new
products and features. But too many people try to do 10 things at once. And
that's why quite often some platforms just never work. Number four, measure
progress by results delivered, not busyness. I see way too many
entrepreneurs that work 24 hours a day, almost seven days a week, and they say
they're working hard, and they don't know why they're not getting lucky. Luck
isn't about how hard you work. Luck is about the more risk you take. Everything
you do should be about doing one thing well, and it will lead to success if you
do it. The next thing I want to teach you is don't be the bottleneck. I know
myself, having built 19 companies, in the early years of building some of my
early businesses, I was the reason the business didn't scale. Now, you might
not have even started your business yet. But this is a really important thing for
you to learn right up front. Don't make the business totally dependent on you.
Too many people don't think long term, and you've got to understand if you're
the only one working on the business, then the business lives and dies by your
day-to-day actions. Make sure you have systems and people that can help you
scale it. These are the four things you need to do to make sure you're not the
bottleneck. First of all, document systems others can follow. Use tools
like notion, loom video. Make people understand how you do things. Don't make
it a dark art or something special, which means no one else can do it.
Number two, delegate tasks where you aren't the expert. Hire an accountant in
my case. I'm not an expert. Get a virtual assistant. I'm really bad at
organizing. This does cost money, of course, in some cases, but not always.
You can just begin the process. You can get automated account softwares, for
example, that are very cheap that allow you to start having this mindset, and as
you scale, it will be easier to then replace you and or have people come in
and do these things. Number three, trust your team with small decisions. Freedom
builds responsibility. Joe, who's editing this video, I probably won't
even see this video before it goes out. I trust him. You've got to trust people
because if I don't let him do it, then he'll never take responsibility for
doing it. And if he knows it's going straight out and potentially millions of
people then see his work, he's also then taking his time to get it right and more
importantly applying himself to make sure that he is able to do it. So you
don't do it yourself by micromanaging. Number four, ask weekly, "What am I
holding up?" Then hand it off. If I'm the bottleneck for this video going out,
if they're waiting for me to get back and watch the whole video back and give
feedback and I'm not even an expert in editing, so why would I do that? Now, I
know people that are making content like this that are doing it and they think
that their micromanagement will make the video better. It doesn't. It slows the
process down. It doesn't allow you perhaps, for example, to do the volume
gain. Don't be the bottleneck in your business. you will kill your business
and kill you probably. The fourth thing I want to teach you is obsession with
sales. Way too many people and I think this starts in school look down on
sales. It's a huge mistake and everybody can learn sales. Introverts, extroverts,
everybody can learn sales and you have to be a salesperson if you like it or
not. Frankly, in life you're a salesperson if you like it or not. You
want to convince someone to be your partner. You want to convince someone to
be your co-founder. you want to convince a client to be. You have to be a
salesperson. Sales is oxygen. Without it, your business dies. These are the
four things I want you to understand and how you can be obsessed with sales.
Number one, spend 80% of your time talking to customers. I spoke to someone
yesterday. She's got this brilliant product. Absolutely brilliant. She spent
4 months working on the product and it's a brilliant product. It looks beautiful.
It's she's explained it well. How many customers do you think she spoke to?
Zero. She doesn't actually know what customers need, what they're willing to
pay, how they're willing to pay, when they're willing to pay, what they
actually need, what they think of the product, and more importantly, is there
a market for her product. You've got to spend time with your customers. Get out
there and talk to customers. Number two, remember sales is just problem solving
for people. You don't need to sell in the traditional way that you think you
do. It's storytelling. You need to say, "This is who I am. This is what I've
got, and this is why I think you need it." Now, if you haven't identified that
they need it, it's a hard sell. But if you've identified they need it, then
it's an easy sale. That's where people go wrong in sales as well. They don't
identify, do the people actually need what you're selling, and then they
wonder why sales is so hard. So remember, sales is just problem solving
for people that have a problem. Number three, track daily outreach. 10
messages, five calls, two meetings. Hold yourself to account. I know so many
people that tell me their product didn't sell in the market, and I ask them, "How
many people did you speak to?" They can't actually even tell me. And then
when I do get the numbers, often I find they've reached out to them twice and
they didn't get a reply on email. Do you know how many emails I get every single
day? Hundreds. I might have missed it. I might have not been my priority that
day. You know, you've got to have a systematic mathematical approach to
daily outreach. And if you do 100 people, i.e. emails, phone calls, DMs,
replying people's comments on social media. If you reach a 100 people with
every single method, you'll get one customer. It's just that simple. So do
the numbers and don't be lazy. Number four, learn to handle rejection. I
always think of Dyson 5,000 failed prototypes before success. You know,
you've got to not only handle rejection, you make something, it doesn't work,
which is an internal, no one's going to see it rejection, but you got to handle
people saying no to you. Rejection is really useful. It's like customer
feedback. If someone's not buying my product, I love to know why. The point
I'm getting to is like rejection isn't really rejection. In school, we're
taught that somehow rejection is a negative thing. In the real world,
rejection gives us knowledge. It gives us insight. It gives us the strength to
fight back with better tools, better language, and better systems. I've got a
fifth tip for you. One thing that guarantees you more sales is building a
strong online presence. It sounds so obvious, but people don't know how to do
it. Customers will Google you before they buy. They will check if your site
is professional, and you'll lose sales if you're not. And that all starts with
something simple most people overlook, your domain name. The problem, most of
the best.com domains are already taken. you either overpay or settle for
something that doesn't quite represent your brand and that hurts your chances
of making sales. That's why I love this new domain name called doonline.online
is the world's second largest new domain name extension and unlike.com it still
has massive inventory and names available. That means you're far more
likely to get the exact name you want, which helps you look legitimate and sell
with confidence. And with online showing up in over 500 million searches each
month, it can even give you a visibility boost generally bringing more potential
customers and more sales to your online store. You can register aonline domain
through GoDaddy, Squarespace, Wix, Namecheep, and more. But if you use the
code Simon and wgetonline down below, you get it now for just 99
cents for the first year for a limited time. Check the link in the description
and grab yours today. It's a small move that can help you land the next sale.
The fifth thing I want to teach you is start with people, not products. So many
people pitch products. To me, you've got to start with people. You've got to
start with your personal story, your personal dream. Reason it matters to
you. And these are the four ways you can start with people, not products. Number
one, find a co-founder and partners who share values, not just skills. I always
think skills can be taught, especially if someone has a natural attribute to a
certain thing. If they're good at accounts or they're good at sales, you
can always get better at those things. And actually you want to get better if
your business has a purpose beyond yourself. This start with people not
products isn't just about your external marketing. This is all also about your
internal fuel. Every single business I've had that's been successful in the
19 companies that I've started 12 of them have been with co-founders and
those ones have been the most successful. I'd rather have 50% of
something successful than 100% of something that fails. The second thing I
want to tell you is build a network before you need it. LinkedIn, local
meetups, online communities. If you know your problem, you should build your
network up around people that are either doing a similar thing, solving a similar
problem, or care about that problem. Start building your network now.
Whatever you're thinking of doing in the future, you can build your network now.
If you're at university now, you can build the network you're really going to
use in the real world. Now, the third thing is ask customers what they truly
want. I always like the story of Dropbox. They started by showing an MVP
demo video before they built any of the product. They just simply did a video
explaining what Dropbox would do. and hundreds of thousands of people signed
up to their mailing list which proved that people wanted that product and once
they had proof that hundreds of thousands of people wanted the product
then they could easily raise money. They had proof that people were going to buy
it when it was built and then they raised money and then they built it. So
I think people need to go and ask customers what they want. I would say
this also means people. Who do they want to work with? Who do they resonate with?
You might have seen Mark Zuckerberg recently having a complete makeover
because they did research and realized that people don't like Mark Zuckerberg.
They tried to make him hip and cool and a bit more modern man. Now I don't think
that worked but the point is you can see why they do it because the smart people
realize it's the people in the company people buy from now. That's why this
influences doing so well. People are buying from people not brands anymore.
So you want to make sure you understand what they want your customers want.
You're going to find it's also going to be certain types of people, authentic
people going forward. Number four, surround yourself with mentors who've
done it before. I always tell people you actually don't need mentors in the
traditional sense. You don't need to go get someone like me to spend hours with
you every day or worse someone that's charging you to be their mentor. Forget
all of that. If there were people out there that you admire, there are people
out there that think you can teach you something. There are two things you can
quickly do. One, you can follow their content. They're probably putting
information out there like I do for free. You don't need me as a mentor. You
just need to watch all my videos. The other way to do it is don't ask these
people to be your mentor. Okay? It's going to trip you up. They're going to
say no. The best thing to do is ask a question, one simple question of the
person you'd like to mentor you. Give them a chance to help you once because
most people will reply to one question. Number six, don't rush to raise
investment. Shark Tank and Dragon's Den has got you brainwashed into thinking
you need to go get an investor. Someone's going to give you a load of
money. It's a mistake. Please think carefully about this. Don't be fooled by
TV shows. Money doesn't fix a weak idea. and money from the wrong people can
destroy your business. So, these are the things to do before you even think about
raising money. Number one, prove demand by selling before building. Tesla got
pre-orders years before cars were delivered. It was easier, by the way,
for him to raise money when he could prove that there was demand for his
product. But if you've got demand for your product, you often don't need to
raise money. Number two, bootstrap for as long as you can. As soon as you have
an investor, they're going to have an objective, right? Get their money back,
make profit. Bootstrapping allows you to step by step build something and know
that it's something you want to work on. By the way, maybe you do it part-time
initially, for example. Maybe you get one customer, look after them, and and
take care of that one customer and take your time. Don't rush. Bootstrapping is
such a wonderful word. I'd love it to be more mainstream than raise money. Number
three, only take investment when you know how to multiply that investment. In
other words, if you know by spending $1 you can make three, sometimes investment
can be worth it because you can scale up that that income stream quicker. But if
you don't know yet that spending $1 will make you free, you're going to spend $1
and have to give away equity. And equity is your freedom. So as soon as you give
equity for that $1, it's the most expensive way you could ever, ever, ever
make your business grow. Number seven, advice is only as good as its source.
And there are three things you need to consider. Number one, ask, has this
person actually done what I want to do? So if you're trying to make content and
make it work, I've done it. I' I get millions of views every day on my
content. So, you could ask me about that and I actually know about it, right? You
have to make sure the person you're asking this this knowledge from has
actually done check they've done it. Second, take advice from practitioners,
not theorists, which basically means people that are actually in the
trenches. That's why I always hate consultants. You know, they'll talk
about how to fix a company or how to grow a business. They've never done it.
I've done it. I've gone into companies and turned them around. I've built
businesses from scratch with no money. I'm a practitioner and that's important
because theorists will always tell you the theory. Chachi PT can tell you the
theory but theory is in the real world it's very different. Everyone's got a
plan that they get punched in the face as they say, right? Take advice from
practitioners. Number three, test everything in the real world. Not enough
people take an idea or a theory like I said earlier and go and ask a customer
for example. You've got to test it. I think people don't realize how important
it is to ask a customer, would you eat this? Too many people have heard the
story about Apple and Steve Jobs who was a genius. Steve Jobs said people don't
want a keyboard Blackberry. They want one button. That's what they want. They
want onscreen tap instead. Now, he was a visionary. He's like the 1% of the 1%.
But nearly every single example otherwise you don't try to guess what
customers want. You go and ask them. If you're getting any value from this video
today, these 10 points are all in my book. I put another 20 in here. I also
talk about how to remove subconscious bias. The things in your subconscious
you believe so strongly that are stopping you following your dream, you
need to read them in this book and they will help you remove them so you can
push forward and make your dream happen. The link to buy this book is down below.
I'm using all the proceeds from this book to fund dreams and build platforms
like helpback.com and make videos like this that bring you value for free.
Number eight, build around purpose. This one is one of my favorites. So what does
it mean? Money fades, purpose lasts. I said earlier, I don't manage people, I
manage purpose. So, these are the four things you need to think about to build
around purpose. Number one, ask yourself, be really honest, why am I
really doing this? I built a comic book business, for example, and I thought,
wow, there's no DC and Marvel comics business in China. And I'm in China, and
I see how well DC and Marvel comics are doing. I'm going to build a Chinese
version. But I did it for the money. I did it because it sounded cool, right?
Comic books were cool. But I wasn't really passionate about that problem.
Take today for example where I at 15 years old left the education system and
it did not prepare me for the world we live in today. It's not preparing you. I
am fired up. That's why for the last 5 years I have been working on this every
single day. For the last 5 years I have done something to help fix that problem
and you will not stop me until it's done. I will not stop. So you have to
ask yourself the same. Dig deep. Be honest. Find it. Find that purpose and
it has to be bigger than making money. Number two align your business with your
values. So for me, I always feel like these courses that are being sold
online, people promising you the world, these property gurus that promise you
you can get rich from property, sell you some course and tell you to buy a house
and change the locks and rent it out to a nurse who can't afford it. This
business model is right, it doesn't align with my values. Now the people
that do it, it aligns with their values. They're happy to charge 8% to a nurse. I
can make money buying property and renting out. I'm not saying you can't
make money from it. I'm saying it doesn't align with my values. So think
what aligns with your values and be honest, right? dig deep again. Number
three, share your story. People buy into you, not just the product. And I feel
like I'm proof of this, right? My origin story tells you why I'm doing what I'm
doing, and it makes it all make sense, right? The fourth thing you need to do
is let purpose guide through tough decisions where money tempts shortcuts.
And it's not just money that will tempt you. I remember when I was building
fluid, I was about 3 years in and it's tough. It was tough. I was competing
against big companies like Olga and they were trying to kill us as an
organization. and we were up and coming and we were doing well and so they would
literally do all sorts of weird things to try and you know take us out but one
day someone came to me for a job who worked at one of these big companies and
he said to me I will bring my client list I have all the pricing of how that
my competitor prices and all I need to do is hire them and they can give me all
the insights to my competitor right I didn't hire them I don't want a shortcut
I spent 15 years building fluid until I sold it Price Waterhouse Cooper for more
money than I ever need I I don't want shortcut I would never sleep well at
night I don't think it's correct And it wasn't my purpose to build it quick and
and destroy another company. My purpose was to bring value to people and help
them in their businesses. Do not take shortcuts. Please build around purpose.
Number nine on my list is the economic future is community. The value of
community has never been more important in an AI world. Community is what's
going to separate you also from the big companies. The big companies don't know
how to do community. Now community is not all new word. And these are the four
ways that you can get community inbuilt in your business in a very simple
fashion. Number one, build a community of early supporters and use tools that
are free like Discord and Slack and even WhatsApp groups. If you're doing a
running club, for example, in your local area, anybody you see running, get their
information. If you're trying to win a war and you go out as a single soldier,
you're going to die quick. The way to win a war is with an army. But you just
want to focus in the one thing. fix the education system in my case that you all
care about. Number two, give more than you take. Share free resources, insights
or tools, contacts, everything you can. You know, if you look at some of the
most successful people right now, like Alex Horos, he's just sold 3 million
books. It's because for years he gave, he gave, he gave, he just showed value
to people. You have to do it sincerely. This can't be a trick. You genuinely
need to want to help the people in your community. But don't give and take. Give
without take. Number three, create spaces where people connect. Online
challenges, in-person meetups, people don't just buy, they join. So, if you
can get people connecting in the real world, it can be incredibly powerful.
And I'm I'm telling you this stuff. I've done it. I built a multi-million pound
business multiple times thinking this way. Number four on the list, let the
community shape your next product. LEGO's fan base were kind of the
inspiration behind the Star Wars Lego. Right? There were a lot of people that
love Lego and love Star Wars. They were making Star Wars Lego. They were
literally making Star Wars didn't even exist in the Lego universe. It was the
fans that gave Lego that idea, right? 99.9% of businesses, you should build it
based on what your community are asking for. And therefore, you need to listen
and you need to give them tools to experiment. Let them have your IP. Let
them use your trademark. Don't be too precious. Let the community show you
where you should be going with your product. The final thing I want to teach
you today, please hire for heart, not skills. I cannot tell you how many
people I've seen fail because they hired people that were not passionate because
skills can be taught and passion allows you to learn those skills. So, how do
you hire for heart, not for skills? Number one, look for attitude, hunger,
and alignment with purpose. Now when I started this platform 5 years ago, I
worked with a lady called Talia who was absolutely amazing and her partner was
doing a startup and it was and he was struggling. So she understood the
struggle of a startup founder and how difficult it was. Also at the same time
her father had just been laid off after 20 odd years working in a company. They
just let him go. That's it. He suddenly had no job. So she saw both sides and
and and therefore her heart was in what we were doing. She cared about the
problem that we were working on, helping people that were just discarded by a
company after 20 years to find purpose, to find something they love and start
again. But equally at the same time, she saw how hard it was for her partner who
was doing a startup to get the help advice from people that had actually
done it like me, right? So, she really believed in it. And she worked so hard
for years and years on this business. At the beginning, by the way, she wasn't
particularly confident. If she's listening to this, she she'd agree she
wasn't particularly brilliant at her job. She told me she was literally
sitting in a merchandising business before staring at a wall all day. Her
desk was in front of a wall and she hated her job. She wasn't an inspiring
skill set, but she had heart and she got so good at her job. So, I know this from
personal experience. You got to have heart, not just skills. Second thing you
got to look at is ask character-driven questions in the interview. I always
love the question like, "If I gave you $10 million, what would you do with it?"
And and I think it's really interesting to get into the almost like moral code
of someone and try to understand what what makes them care about what they're
working on because it if it's money all you're going to get every 6 months is
give me more money and it's draining. Number three, promote from within when
you see loyalty. So for me like probably loyalty and honesty probably the two
most important traits. So in my team there's a guy called Ben for example
been with us a couple of years now. He has heart. He's always honest and he's
incredibly loyal. He's been offered jobs left and right since he's worked with me
and this channel's blown up. He's offered jobs all the time, but he sticks
at it with his even though he's been offered double the salary and he's been
offered this and he's been offered that. And I think that that is someone you
just got to look after and you got to promote them and you got to figure out a
way to help them get better and better and better. There's a book called 48
Laws of Power which is by Robert Green. That book was designed to show you the
people that do the opposite. What they try to do is not promote you. They try
to keep you skills down so you still need the person you're you're talking to
that the boss. You still need the boss. I promote people. I look at people and I
think, okay, they're loyal, they care, they have heart. How can I promote them?
And you need to do the same if you want to be successful. The fourth thing I
want to teach you, the final thing, build culture first and skills will
follow. Culture eats strategy for breakfast. You can have strategies all
day long. Great. You know how you're going to achieve something, but you need
the why you're going to achieve it. I just interviewed Simon SK. If you
haven't watched that podcast, you should because we talk about this subject. And
in an AI world, it's going to be even more important that it's linked to
humans. That the culture matters. And what what matters inside the company is
how can we lift each other up. Everybody in my organization over time will get
equity. That's that's part of our culture. I cannot tell you to go start
your own business. And then people that work for me don't own their own
business. So your culture has to match your your rhetoric. Please focus on
culture and skills will follow. Thanks for listening to this. I hope you got
value. If you did, give us a subscribe. Give us a comment down below and let me
know if you have any questions. I will read the comments myself. Thank you for
listening.