This is Lily, an entrepreneur who owns a
$5,000 per month business working
entirely for herself. And my name is
Simon Squib, and I've been in business
for over 35 years, with my most recent
startup being valued at over $50
million. In this episode, Lily is going
to explain the exact steps she took to
quit her 9to-5 and start her dream
business. And I'm going to give her the
steps she needs to take this business to
$10,000 a month. And feel free to copy
this blueprint. This is valuable no
matter what stage you're at in building
your dream. Let's go. Right, Lily, let's
talk first quickly before we get into
what you did and how you did it. What is
your business about?

>> So, it's a wellness brand. I started out
doing candles and then I expanded to do
workshops.
>> How long has it taken you to from
starting the business to when you first
became profitable?

>> So, I started 2 and a half years ago in
December 2022 and I probably became
profitable around 7 8 months in.
>> So, 7 8 months in using the formula
we're going to explain to people now.
Yeah. you became a profitable business
and you started with the savings you
made while you were working somewhere
else. We're going to go through now the
six steps that you went through to make
this business work which people can
learn from. So let's start at number
one. What did you do first to make this
business happen?

>> The first thing I ever did to even think
of this business is I got a candle kit
off Amazon. I was going through a back a
bit of a rough time and I just wanted a
time like just something for myself to
like take my mind off things and I got a
candle kit and I made one and my mom was
like I'll buy it off you and I was like

>> your mom became your first customer.
>> Yeah.

>> Yes. That's great. By the way, we all
need our first customer. That's it. So
your mom became your first customer. So
I made a Shopify account. Literally no
experience, nothing. Just made a random
website and I put my candle on there for
$5.99 and she bought it. And
>> this is genius, by the way.
buying it as a business. It's brilliant.
>> I'm just very impulsive. And then my
friend was like, "Oh, I'll buy one off
you." So then I just started I did a
wholesale order of candle stock and I
just started posting them and then my
friends are buying them and it literally
just started from that.

>> You this straight away this first
lesson, let me translate it. It doesn't
matter what business you're starting,
you only need one client to get things
going. So what happened next?
>> So my local gym, I messaged them and I
was like, "Do you mind if I do a pop-up
store here?" And I just messaged loads
of like places and they said yes. So
then a month later I went to my gym and
did a pop-up saw and I made 850 in one
day.

>> See another great lesson in this is like
when people want if you said oh I want
to open up a shop people's instinct is
to go and you know raise big money on
Dragon's Den and then go get a very high
fixed cost location. You went and asked
people if you could just use their kind
of space like the gym space. It's
brilliant. So you went did a pop-up. Oh
my god. You sold £850 worth of stuff.
What did you do next?
>> Obviously, I did my social media at the
same time. I remember my dad sent me an
Instagram DM and he'd seen like an ad on
his Instagram and it was like pop up in
Westfield and he sent it to me. I was
like, why would they ever accept my
brand? I've literally been going for
like 6 months. And I sent them an email
like, "Hi, I'm Lily. Like, here's my
brand. I'd love to be in Westfield." And
they replied back like, "Yeah, we've got
this date available." Wow.
>> And I remember I'm sure I've got the
video on my phone. I was in my room
crying.
>> You overcame what could have been a
limiting belief, right? you your brain
said, "Why would they accept you? You're
just new." But you tried it. So, they
accepted you. Then what happened?
>> And then I went to Westfield. I was
there for a few days and I did my pop-up
store, gained loads of customers, gained
a more of a following, and I just kept
doing pop-up stores. That was like what
I was doing until I started doing the
workshops. So, I was doing that for
about a year.
>> Right. So, so you, so, so you started uh
your social media pages. You were doing
these pop-ups. Um, you were losing money
though still at this point, right? Is
this four months, five months into the
process? And you're still losing money.
You're starting to make money, but
you're still overall costwise losing
money. Right.

>> I was buying too much stock. I was
getting excited.
>> Okay. So, this £400 budget got out of
control.
>> Way out of control.
>> Right. And so, you started buying more
stock than you could sell.
>> Yeah.
>> And that at your savings, which caused
you a bit of a cash flow problem, right?
Okay. So, then what you reduce, you
start to learn to reduce your amount of
that you buy, which again, another great
lesson because a lot of people, they do
do that. um they do buy 10,000 t-shirts
and then they can't sell them. If they
buy a thousand t-shirts and sell them
and you work out how to sell them, then
you can order 5,000 and then sell those
and learn how to sell them. But this is
where Okay. So, he's not making money,
but people like the product. What was
the next thing you did?
>> I kept doing my pop-up stores um until I
did a pop-up store once with someone and
they were like, "We should do a collab."
And that would have been my first ever
collab. And they have a c like a cafe
and they said, "You should do a candle
making workshop." I've never done a
candle maker workshop before with
anyone. So, I Googled like what I'd
need. I bought all the stuff and it was
about seven people. It was a really
small workshop and I loved it. I just
love teaching people. That literally
that day like changed my life and that's
when I started doing my workshops.

>> So, again, you said yes to an
opportunity that some people might have
said no to or workshops. I've never done
that before.
>> Yeah.
>> Most people say no then. So,
entrepreneur-minded people don't have to
be entrepreneur instinct people. want to
remind people say I'll try it. Then what
happened? You realized you could charge
for these workshops and then tell us
what the process for people to learn.

What happened next?
>> So I realized that I'm making more
profit from doing workshops. It's like
over like 85% profit margins doing them.
And I realized that's where my money is
going to come in and I need to focus
more on workshops. So yeah, I've got a
little studio in the back of my garden
which I did up.
>> Okay. So people started coming to your
home and doing workshops. Then what? And
that's literally where I am now. So
people are just coming and doing
workshops.

>> You've just hired someone to help you,
right? And you've just paid yourself a
healthy, you know, finally a healthy
salary, right? So um pretty amazing. One
of the things you put here is you've
been using social media. Was there any
sort of hack or anything you can teach
people about your social media strategy?

>> Um I think just be yourself.
>> Love that.
>> And I think also rejection is
redirection. I don't mind getting like
rejected,
>> right? Oh god, great mental framework as
well.
>> I I'm just myself.

>> Okay, so look um you know this is the
framework you built to today and and I
think a lot of people can learn how to
build a business with just a little bit
of savings and a little bit of guts and
the right frame of mind. You can build a
business where your salary is replaced
by the business you love doing and then
no one can fire you, right? Only you can
fire you now, right? And you're building
a brand which has value. Lily started
her dream business for £3,000 that she
saved up while working at a care home.
But I'm going to give you the chance
today to win £15,000 to make your dream
a reality and transform your business.
I've partnered with Adobe Express to
create the ultimate pitch deck template
that anyone can use to bring their idea
to life. But first, you can pitch to me
virtually from anywhere in the UK. All
you need to do to be with a chance of
winning this money is submit your pitch
deck on helpbank.com. The competition is
open to anyone in the UK with a dream.
Let me show you how to do the pitch
deck. It's really simple. It's been
designed to allow you to simply create
exactly what investors want, what
potential partners want. Luckily, with
the Adobe Express Ultimate Pitch deck
that we have designed, this is made
super clear and you can remix the
template to make it relevant to you. One
way you could do this is using image
generation to get your point across. You
can use the generate image feature to do
this. On slide seven, I want you to
illustrate the size of the market
opportunity. One way you could do this
is using the charts and grids feature to
create and customize graphs to
illustrate your point. On slide 11, I
want to hear more about you and your
team. I use the remove background
feature to edit the image to fit into my
style. You can enter by creating your
pitch deck using my template and
entering by help bank Adobe lockpace
using the password dream of Adobe. An
independent panel will judge the best
pitch deck and one of you will win
£15,000 and help to fund your dream.
Full terms and conditions can be found
in the help bank lock space. Good luck.
Let's talk now about uh what you want to
do next. So the three things you said
you need my help with. Okay. So how to
get partners which I'm going to go
through with you. Concept scale, how to
scale and then community. I'm actually
going to start with scale. Okay.

>> Okay. Cuz I think it's very important
for people listening and I think for you
to maybe just explain what does scale
mean. Sometimes we build businesses and
I built I built 19 companies. Okay. And
I have in that journey realized that I
don't want to personally
build a big company anymore. I I think I
can build a big company by having in my
company I got 41 people full-time
working on helping people with their
dreams. But I have eight people that I
work with and those eight people each
have their own responsibility and they
can go off and build even bigger team.
So I I know myself now. I'm not a very
good manager. I'm visionary. I'm a
leader but I'm not a manager. But I I
learned a long time ago that scale can
be a dangerous word because you can
scale it into something you don't
personally want. What does scale mean to
you? Is important to define. What does
it mean to you?

>> So I just want to have a place or a few
places where people can come and create
their own candles. I want like a
wellness area basically.
>> Right. So you kind of want a wellness
center.
>> Yeah.
>> And how many do you want?
>> Like five.
>> Why five?
>> Just like a few in the main cities. I
don't want to get overwhelmed with it at
the moment. Right. Having five wellness
centers will be quite an overwhelm. I
think you want to ask yourself why.
>> I tell I tell you what, five physical
wellness centers today, you want people
to feel connected and and so on. You
might find, ironically, the community
can deliver a lot of this. And these
wellness centers don't have to be
managed by you. It could be that you
partner up with people that have spars
for example and then you do a franchise
as a concept and you let each of these
spars run this franchise which does your
wellness centers. So then you don't have
to run them you know you don't have to
do rates do the rent fit it out manage
it. Now of course you can hire a
manager. I would say five stores is
maybe a bit small. You'd need to get to
like 10 15. Then you could hire someone
to do all that running around a manager
of all the stores. Five stores might be
a bit tight, but I I kind of think is
the like how you built the business to
begin with. I think you should carry on,
you know, like can you instead work with
every spa in Britain to open up a uh
candle wellness center workshop program
so they make money in the spa. They'll
know when their quiet times are. And you
don't have to run it. You literally send
them a kit, right, with your branding
and your structure and your training
video. And then yeah, sure, maybe some
of them you want to go along to, but you
could have hundred of these operating
every week.

>> I've also thought of doing at home
candle making kits too. So that could
also be part.
>> Yeah. You go back to your roots, which
is how you first got connected to this.
My suggestion on scale for anyone
listening and and for you is to think
about like what you want to do. So you
right and think about your working day.
So for me, I'm building a tech platform.
I don't want to be building any tech. I
don't even want to be involved in the
tech development. I like to meet people
and help them for real. Yeah,

>> I like to make content that helps people
at scale and I want to be in the streets
meeting people and understanding what
they need. So maybe do this exercise for
yourself, too,
>> and figure out exactly what you want to
do and then figure out, okay, if you
want to scale, then you're going to
probably need someone that understands
wellness centers and they're going to
come in as your partner and they're
going to run them. But I think much more
scalable. My instinct is this kit
partnership business with spars and then
selling to consumers direct as you say
kits. I think that'll be brilliant. So
this scale conversation once we
understand your baseline then helps you
get partners. Okay? Because partners are
let's say um I think co-founders they're
brands and there's other influencers. Um
so let's talk about how to get each of
these. Getting a co-founder I actually
think you're at the stage where you
should think about this. Every business
I've ever had that's worked. I've had a
co-founder. Someone that has exactly the
opposite skills to me. Same moral code
exactly opposite skills. So personally
I'm not very good at accounts and
finance. So I like to bring someone in
that can take care of that side. So
knowing your strengths and weaknesses is
pretty important. And so at school they
teach you the opposite, right? They say,
"Right, you're getting a D in biology,
you got to do more biology." No, if
you're getting an A in something, double
down on it. If you're getting a D on
something, get someone else to do it.
It's just not your passion. It's not
your interest. Right? So I think
co-founder um and then write down the
things you like to do, the things you
think you're bad at. Now, when you have
the things you're bad at and the things
you don't like to do, you can begin to
do a job description for your
co-founder. Now, how to get a
co-founder? You can go and look on
LinkedIn and you'll look at people who
are running wellness brands and you can
go see who the number two is at that
company. They probably don't own equity
and you can go to them and say, "I'm
going to build the world's most exciting
candle wellness brand and I'd like you
to join me." Most of the time number two
actually earn good money. They can
invest and they can work and hopefully
they can do the things you don't love to
do. And you've done the ground work to
kind of show a proof of concept
workshops at scale could make money.
Selling candles at scale could make
money. So you've kind of taken a little
bit of the risk out cuz you've got a
little bit of a formula there. Now you
just need to put a system in place to
make that formula scale up. Okay,
brands. Brands are actually really
simple to get on board. People always
make it very complicated. Formula for
getting a brand on board is very simple.
What is the brand's objective and how
can you help them achieve it? So this
may be the wrong example. Let let's
let's pick Nike, right? Nike could sell
candles. Nike could do a promotion with
candles. They could do I'm sure they've
got some relaxed range coming out.
They're trying to compete with
Lululemon, I'm sure. Right. They're
like, "We've got a relaxed yoga line
coming out and we want everyone who buys
uh our product to get a candle." So then
they'll make branded night candles with
you and then either sell them in the
shop or give them away. And if you walk
around, you'll see advertising. You'll
see what all these brands are trying to
achieve. And then like you just said
about approaching a Westfield, you just
message them.

>> Yeah.
>> And you say, "I see you're doing a yoga
range. I want to help people relax while
doing yoga. Would you like to do a
partnership?"
>> And the worst thing is they'll say no.
>> No. But they probably won't.
cuz they don't have the micro influence.
They don't have the backstory you've got
and they're not in the candle business.
They don't they won't really want to do
candles. Now, they might get into
candles and buy you later. That's a
whole different thing, right? But
brands, it's very simple. You understand
what they're trying to do and then you
reverse engineer what you have to offer
to those brands. Any brands jumped in
your mind? We can try and do a quick
case study.

>> Lululemon.
>> Lululemon. Well, exactly what I just
said. Lul Lululemon. Interestingly
enough, Lululemon because they're doing
yoga already, they should be doing it.
>> Yeah. So that go to them. But what's
interesting is if you can go to Nike who
aren't seen as yoga, right, and you can
help them be more yoga.
>> Yeah.
>> You might actually get more money out of
and more luck with brands like Nike.
Now, if you can't get a hold of the
founder, then go to their marketing
person. So like Gym Shark, Ben Francis
has found Gym Shark. Very busy guy. Try
reach out to him. He'll love your story,
by the way. And then you can reach out,
if you can't get hold of Ben, to Null,
who's head of marketing. So, I'm sure if
you reach Ben or Null, they'll probably
want to do something with you. Now, they
might say not today, maybe in six months
time, but reach out to them all and try,
right? And that's how you get brand
deals. It's really, really simple, but
no one actually does it. And then
finally, with influencers, I mean, every
influencer is different. I believe with
all my heart that influencers are the
new big businesses. So, influencers can
launch businesses instantly with near
zero marketing cost. It's already
happening with Mr. beast and chocolate
business and all these YouTubers making
brands that are launching and becoming
big businesses. You know, Kim Kardashian
launching Skims Prime. Exactly. But I I
think what not a lot of people are doing
when they approach influencers, they're
like, "Well, here's here's a candle.
>> I hope you like it." And then they may
or may not do something about it. And
then they might say, "Oh, I'll pay you
£5,000 if you promote my candle." And
even then, maybe they will, maybe they
won't. Would you go to them and say,
"You're in the wellness space. I notice
you love to do yoga and your videos do
really well showing yoga poses. um would
you like to be a part owner in a candle
company with me? Now, there's two ways
to do it. You can either give them
equity in a whole range that you do
separately or part of your business. You
can actually get influencers board as
partners and then they can do the
marketing for you and support you to
grow whatever your final vision is. But
again, I think influencers, you know,
the model is you send them something
they like and they just support you.
That's worth a try. Then you have an
agreement where you pay them and they
and they promote you and that's their
job. or and I think this is the future,
you get influencers in as business
partners. So if you give 2% to Kim
Kardashian,
it's worth it every day of the week,
isn't it? And if she puts it in one
video, you'll sell out every single day
of the week for the next 3 months.
>> I've had influencers have my candles
before as well. And she posted my candle
and I got about like 2,000 followers
just from that one post.
>> And so so definitely try that model. But
I think that's quite an exciting opening
conversation. If you say, "Hi, can you
please promote my candle?" But if you
say, "Look, you know, would you like to
launch a candle range with your brand on
it?" and you promote it and we we share
the revenue. Of course, why not? And
that actually brings me on to community.
Cuz community to me, there's two things
important about community. Number one,
the value you bring the community. It's
not what value they can bring you, it's
what value you can bring them. And the
second thing is support,
right? Accountability. Nobody makes it
on their own. Nobody. So, you started
off with your mom and then your friend
and then those friends are friends and
then the people at the pop-up that
bought into you in the brand, you have
built up or I'm going to guess 200
people there that we call true fans.
People that love you, you need 1,000 to
build any business.
>> Okay,
>> I'm guessing you need 800 more. Thousand
true fans that all tell 10 people about
you today, you can launch anything, do
anything. But to get 1,000 true fans,
you need to bring them value. So, how do
you bring them value? Well, I mean, this
is a form of value, you know, where we
we don't keep the knowledge to ourselves
of how you made it just so you're the
only one in the world that's making it.
Share it.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. That that's value. What What are
we asking for people in return for
watching this video? Nothing. In my
case, I make money on the YouTube video
and I make money for my sponsor and I
use that money to fund people's dreams.
So, everything I'm trying to do all the
time is bring value to my community. And
I'm not extracting value. I don't say to
people, "Oh, you can only watch this
video if you pay me £10." It's not that
you can't do that, but in a way, you're
giving and you're taking, right? So, I
take I I I can make money from you and
then I take money from you. And what you
want to try and think about with
communities is how can you give value
without value being extracted? Cuz
that's how you build powerful
communities. Now, it doesn't mean say
you can't charge for your candles.
That's your core business. Yeah.
>> What can you bring to your community?
That's value. And you start basically
doing a mind map around this. So, what
is the community value you can bring?
And it could be events. Let's say
events, right? Okay. But don't
underestimate behind the scenes,

>> you know, just you showing what's going
on, you know, your experience, what's
happening. Yeah. You making them you
coming here today and you're feeling
about it like include people in the
journey, right? This actually has a lot
of value. People underestimate it. They
why would anyone want to know? People
want to know. They want to feel a part
of it. Make the community feel part of
it. Right? I think then for community
there's also like let the community talk
to the community. So it's one-on-one. So
you create a way of your community
connecting to each other. So you can use
platforms like discord or WhatsApp
groups you know a place where people can
say oh I made this candle and then they
share it with the community and they go
oh I made this candle you're not even
there right and suddenly there's a whole
200 people that turned into a thousand
people all chatting in this community
about the candles they made
and inspiring each other and having fun
now you don't have to spend any money
initially you can use WhatsApp
>> and any sort of free product like
Discord but you want to create a place
where your community can share their
love of candles
>> that's my goal so I want like an app
where people can come together and even
do like Meetup so they can like meet
each other
>> but you don't need to build an app
straight away. Literally take these 200
people and create a WhatsApp group.
>> Saw that as my base
>> and you basically say share your candles
and all it is is people posting in their
candles. Keep it moderated right
initially. It's not people putting in
there how difficult a day they're having
that you don't want any of that yet. You
just want to get if you can get a,000
people on a WhatsApp there isn't an
investor I know that won't want to
invest in it. Now you got a thousand
people that are interested in your
products and they're willing to promote
you and they love you and they support
you.
>> You don't need to build an app yet. So
what I suggest for this community piece
is you spend time thinking about all the
ways you could bring value that don't of
course hopefully cost you too much. And
I do think things like letting the
community talk to each other behind the
scenes you're going to do anyway. Events
you're probably going to do one or two
here and there because as entrepreneurs
we don't have bosses but communities can
keep us accountable and make sure we
don't slip or get lazy.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So, that's my quick take on
community. Useful.
>> Very.
>> I hope you guys got some value from this
video. If you did, please hit the
subscribe button or let us know in the
comments if you have any questions. And
please follow Lily if you want to be
inspired. Thank you so much for
listening. We're off to have some
chicken now. Do you eat chicken?
>> Yeah. Cupcake.
