If you want to be wealthy. And happy the rest of your life, just learn this lesson. Well, learn to work harder on. Yourself than you do on. Your job. I have found in my experience that income does not far exceed personal development. Now, sometimes income takes a lucky jump, but sure enough, unless you grow out where it is, it'll usually come back where you are. Life has strange ways. If somebody hands you a million dollars, best you become a millionaire quickly. So, you get to keep the money. Otherwise, sure enough, it'll disappear. Somebody once said, "If you took all the money in the world, divided it up equally among everybody, it would soon all be back in the same pockets." Success is something you attract, not something you pursue. So, instead of going after it, you work on. Yourself, personal development, because true happiness is not contained in what you get. Happiness is contained in what you become. Now, if you're excited and you're ready to change, let me give you three steps to start life change that can change your life, your personality, your life'style. Everything can change. Here's the steps. Number one, find out how things work. To change your life, really, you need ideas. There isn't anything an idea can't change. And Schul taught me the major problem is lack of an idea. Not a problem. At first, I didn't have any money. I said to Mr. Scha, "I don't have any money." He said, "That's not a problem." Now, see, up until then, I always thought it was right. I was confused. He said, "No, no, the problem is lack of an idea on how to create money and wealth. It isn't lack of money, it's lack of ideas. So, if you get the ideas, see, you can change anything." Now to get ideas you need a constant study of finding out. If you wish to be successful, study success. If you wish to be happy, study happiness. If you wish to be wealthy, study wealth. Don't leave it to chance. Make it a study. Some people just go through the day with their fingers crossed. See, that won't do it. You've got to study the things that can change your economic, social, spiritual, personal life. Now, Schaef also said when you find out something that works, put the information in your journal. Don't use your head for a filing cabinet. Put it in your journal so that, you can do the next best thing. Repetition, repetition, repetition. Go over it. And if you repeat it, go over it. Sure enough, someday, some mysterious day, the idea takes root, starts to grow, and shows up in your bank account and your dress and your personality and your life'style. Now, if you're curious, let me give you three ways to find out how to change anything, any life direction, any dimension. Here's three ways to find out how to change anything. Number one is to read. All of the successful people I know and work with around the world, they're all good readers. Curiosity drives them to read. They got to know. They just read, read, read, read, read, read, read, read, read. Become self-educated. Standard education will get you standard results. And you can check those numbers and See, if that's what you want. But if you want to go beyond that, you now have got to become self-educated. One way to learn is from your own experiences, but another way to learn is from other people's experiences. See, one book might save you five years if you read it. Did you know there's books on how to be stronger, more decisive, be a speaker, be a leader, have a better effect on other people, develop your personality? Did you know there's books on that? Did you know that hundreds of successful people have written their stories in books and they wrote down how they did it and people don't read it? How would you explain that? Now, you don't have to read half the night, but put this in your notes. 30 minutes a day. 30 minutes a day. Read something positive, something challenging, something inspirational, something instructional. At least 30 minutes a day. Become a good reader. Now, that's my opinion. Listen to the other lecturers and listen to me and make up your own mind. Don't be a follower. Be a student. Here's the second way to find out how to change your life, and that's to listen. Get around successful people and listen. Now, you can also learn from unsuccessful people. Take notes on both, negative and positive. Find out what poor people read and don't read it. Right? That's good information. Learn from the negative. But now, you can also learn from the positive. Get around successful people. Listen to what they say. Listen to how they say it. It's important. Now, here's some of the best advice I've got for the whole evening. Poor people ought to take rich people out to dinner. And listen, that's some of the best I got. But you're right. Poor people don't usually take rich people out to dinner. The guy said he's rich. Let him buy his own dinner. I'm not coming up with any money. You're lucky to get your own supper, let alone running around trying to find a rich man to feed. and the guy's behind. If a guy's not doing well, one of the first things he ought to do is find a guy that is doing well and offer to buy him his dinner. Spend 50, $60, $800. Go for the full nine course. If you get a successful person to eat and talk for two hours, they're liable to drop ideas in your lap. Change your life. Multiply your income by two, by three, by five. But you're right. Poor people don't usually take rich people out to dinner. Now, here's the third way to find out how to change your life, and that's to observe. You can pick up a lot of ideas just by watching. Get around successful people and watch. Here's why. Success leaves clues. Watch how the man shakes hands. Watch how the lady responds. People who do well do certain things over and over and over and over. And if you're clever, you can pick them [Music] up. Watch it all. If a guy's making $10,000 a month, I'd watch how he walks. Maybe that's it. Copy his funny little walk. Somebody says, "Well, that's kind of a silly walk." Say it's 10,000. I haven't got the money yet, but I got the walk. It's bound to start somewhere. What I ask you tonight is to be unusual and be a good observer of what's going on. You can pick up ideas that can change your life starting tomorrow. Just be a more careful observer. Now remember, there's two ways to see. One is called sight. See with your eyes. The other one is called insight. See with your mind. [Music] See with your eyes, you'll see things. See with your mind, you'll see answers. Put your eyes and your mind to work. And the best advice on developing sight and insight is pay attention. Don't miss anything. Wherever you are, be there. Excellent. Now, we've lingered a little bit long on number one here for personal development. find out how things work. But it's so very important, finding out. And I've given you three ways to find out. Now, here's the second step to personal development. Okay? Number one was find out how things work. Here's number two. Go to work. If there's one thing to get excited over, that's it. Get excited over your ability to make yourself do the necessary things. What could you make yourself do starting tomorrow that would change it all? No telling. Now, see, that's exciting. On any given day, you can massively change the direction of your life. Now, here's the key to discipline. Start with the little disciplines. Get excited over the little disciplines and get right on those because those will lead to the big ones. You can't handle the big challenges in life unless you take on the little ones. Make a list of all the things you can do. Get right on those. Discipline yourself for those. Both for the results and for the muscle and for the practice. So that when life hands you some big challenges, you'll be ready. You'll have the muscle. But see, if you don't handle the small ones, you can't take care of the big ones. Here's what else it takes for life change. Self motivation. Key phrase, selfm motivation. I don't know why we call it selfm motivation. It's really the only kind there is. You got to motivate yourself. And you don't want to give self motivation away to somebody else and make it somebody else motivating you. The guy says, "Boy, if somebody just come by and turn me on, what if they don't show up?" Right? See, you got to have a better plan for your life. You must now take action on what you found out. Don't let your learning lead to knowledge. you'll become a fool. Let your learning lead to action, you can become wealthy. And there's many kinds of wealth. I understand that. Not just money. Money is one of the least of all values. I know some people with a lot of money that are very [Music] poor. Now, here's the third step to personal development, and we'll wrap up personal development. Step number three, it's just a little caution. And all through life, we need little cautions. This one simply says, don't try to beat the system. Find out how it works. Work it, but don't try to beat it. Some people learn just enough to start slicing it, shading it, thinning it, cutting corners, and looking for cheap answers. See, don't fall for that. you'll wind up with a cheap life. Find out how it works best and do it that way. Even though it seems to take a little longer, do it. Right. Don't compromise with right. So, if I had a word with you tonight oneonone, just you and me, I think my personal advice to you would be this year 1981, reach down inside of you and come up with some more of those remarkable human gifts. They're there waiting to be utilized. And then change anything for you to want to change. And I challenge you to do that because you can change. See, you don't ever have to be the same again after tonight. Only by choice. Starting tomorrow, what are you going to do that'll make a change in your life's direction? Good question. What are you going to do starting tomorrow that'll make a difference? Now, see, if you don't do something starting tomorrow that'll make a difference, guess what? It's going to be the same. And see, that way you can guess what the next five years are going to be like. Look at the last five cuz the next five are going to be like the last five unless you major key tomorrow change it all or change a little or change something, or don't change. It's choice time. You can do whatever you want. But it's nice to know any day you wish you can change your whole life.