65% of businesses fail in 10 years. But,
that's only true if you pick the wrong type of business. So, how do you pick
the right business that's more likely to succeed? I want to start with the data
and tell you exactly what I do if I lost it all and how to start over tomorrow.
And by the way, I'm Cody Sanchez, founder of Contrarian Thinking, and
we've built dozens of businesses. So, let me let you steal our homework so you
can build without much cash or talent. The framework that I'm going to talk
about today is called signals. And this is the number one way to grow your
wealth in 2026. Let's start with the S. In 2026, your biggest advantage isn't
talent. It's not capital. It's speed. And that's the first S in signal. How we
think about this is called the OODA Loop framework. Basically, we stole this from
the military. And it goes observe, orient, decide, act. If you can move
from idea to launch in 24 hours while your competitors are circling back next
quarter, you win. I've seen this time and time again. Like Spencer Scott, who
we talked to about building a trash business. Did he wait to figure out how
to actually do trash, how to get permits, how to do whatever? No, no, no.
He put up a Facebook post on his local community site and said, "Hey, by the
way, do you guys also hate our trash company? And if you do, here's a
pre-sell link right here to something that does not exist today. But, if you
click this and you give me a monthly amount of 30 bucks or whatever and I get
to at least 10k, I'll start this company and I'll create a better garbage hauling
system for all of us." That one decision, which took him 24
hours from the idea to the action in the post, led to $13,000 in monthly
recurring revenue before buying a truck. Most people take millions of dollars in
venture capital funding to do that. So, he used Webflow, Stripe, and a Facebook
rant to pre-sell. He had a few referral incentives, like sign up for 5 months
you get a shirt, 10 months you get 3 months free. No licenses, no capital, no
equipment, just an idea and a landing page. And that, my friend, is what I
mean when I say, "Sell first and build second." Next, I'm going to talk about
the I in signals, which is industry selection. When you pick the right
industry, you don't die. Most people start businesses in
industries where the odds are already against them. If you want to win, you
start with where the math is in your favor. Let's talk about the survival
rates of small businesses. If you look at a typical survival rate, you're going
to find that most businesses die, 90% of them within 10 years. But, you look here
and you see, "Wait a second. Information businesses? They have a 29% 10-year
survival rate? Not great. That's an F. That's below an F." Versus manufacturing
and agriculture, 49% survival rate. You got 50/50. So, this isn't actually about
being sexy. It's about being solvent. Do not pick places where dreams go to die.
That's why we obsess on a bunch of businesses like lawn mowers, power
washers, older small business owners answering the phones. These industries
are wide open because the people running them, they're all aging out. So, I think
there is an inverse relationship between age of owner and length of solvency. The
older the owner, the more likely that business is to stay solvent when you
either start it or buy it. Next, I'm going to talk about the G in signals.
This is the generational transfer or what we're calling the Boomer exit. $7
trillion to be precise. So, every day, how many business owners are retiring?
Well, guys, that's 10,000. And of these 10,000 businesses retiring, 8 to 10% of
them are business owners. You could go and put some cash down on Carnival
Cruise stock cuz I hear that's what you do once you're retired. Or, you could go talk to small business
owners and see if any of those businesses that you go to that are
little tiny things, you could actually buy. This means thousands and thousands
of businesses are about to go up for grabs. Look at the share of the United
States population that is over 65 years old. This population is going to
increase. And what's fascinating is this trend may never exist again because we
won't have another baby boom. So, we are seeing what is a really big balloon
where a bunch of these people created businesses that will either deflate and
there will be something popped or we can continue the trend by buying them
overall. And what's fascinating to me is 41% of all small business owners are
owned by boomers. 52% of business owners are near or at retirement. 52% of
boomers. We make fun of them a lot cuz there are a lot of them. And 52% of them are about to retire.
But, what's the crazy number? 40% of them no exit plan. That's not a stat.
That's where money goes to be made. And the truth is, most of these owners who
want to retire from running their cash-flowing business, they don't want
to close the business. They just simply don't know anyone to hand to the keys
to. They have a business that is kind of like a job, not a business. So, it's not
like private equity is knocking on the door. But, would you like to be your own
boss and make six figures in revenue? Probably. So, what would I do? I'd buy a
business someone else built and I'd scale the hell out of it. Next, I want
to get to needs-based cash flow. What does this mean? Follow the cash, not the
headlines. So, while tech bros are getting laid off and influencers are
hawking, I don't know, gut gummies or tea for affiliate cash, the real money
moves in silence. >> I am very, very sneaky, sir.
>> It goes into what we call the Songhurst Matrix. And the Songhurst Matrix is
fascinating because what it actually means is that aging industries, like
equipment repair, home maintenance, landscaping, these businesses are not
sexy. And what happens when you have an unsexy business that makes a lot of
money? Well, the sexier the business, the less money, typically, you make in
it. Think about actors. 90% of them can't even afford their SAG-AFTRA union
fees. It's Jabon, lipstick for men. >> But, 100% of electricians get all of
their money from their job. So, what's also fascinating about these industries
and household maintenance, people 60 plus outnumber under 30 by two to one.
In equipment repair, the 65 plus age group is growing faster than any other.
So, this is where I'd be looking to have a business as the opportunity to stand
out from the competition is just greater. Bringing up-to-date tech to an
industry run by 70-year-olds, probably easier than having to stand out by
starting the 1,000th social media app and trying to compete with all of these
people who are getting funded by giant venture capital companies. So, once
you've picked the right industry, the first step to building real credibility
is your website. Business owners spend thousands trying to make their website
look legit. But, can you do it for just 99 cents with a .online domain name?
Most good .coms are taken. So, why settle for a spammy
www.buybusinessname123.com? Get a clean and professional .online
domain name that is trusted by over 3.5 million small businesses and big brands
worldwide. And because the word online is searched over 500 million times a
month, having it in your domain gives your website a serious edge in search
results. You can get a .online domain literally at any website builder or
domain provider. But, if you want it for just 99 cents for your first year, go to
www.get.online/cody5 and get your .online domain now. Okay,
so we're going to move fast and break things, famous Facebook line. Then,
we're going to pick the right industry so we don't die. Then, we're going to
look at generational wealth transfer from the boomers. And finally, we're
going to make sure our business is focused on cash and nothing else.
But, we got to also ask ourselves, who are we going to sell to? Which is how I
think about my clientele. I want to sell things to rich people because they pay
more. So, this is our affluent clients. You need to understand that it's not
more work to sell to rich people. It's actually often less. You just need to
understand why they buy. Let's talk about this first. Rich people, they have
a lot of money. And in order to validate the fact that they've worked incredibly
hard for that money over time and to keep up with the Joneses, what do they
do? They spend more money. In fact, you are actually limited by something that
is called wallet share. You think right now in your life and business that other
people would never spend $100,000 on a private chef because that's crazy. That,
"Oh my gosh, I couldn't even imagine getting custom engraving on my seats in
my car and paying somebody $2,000 for it." But, they actually spend a lot. And
that's why, typically, most people underprice their business by 30 to 300%
and simultaneously, most people who sell things to rich people don't change their
prices except every 3 years. We're not going to be that because I'm going to
show you something called the K-shaped economy spending graph. What does this
mean? Top earners now drive over 50% of US consumer spending. The bottom half
increasingly squeezed by inflation. And so, do we want to go to the people at
the bottom who have less money than ever cuz inflation is eating it? Or, do we
want to go to the people who have all the money even though there's fewer of
them? This K-shaped recovery is what we are having now today. And in it, you're
going to find that you'll make more money selling to people like people in
finance, people who have college degrees, people who live on the coasts.
It's not fair, but life isn't fair. And so, we're going to focus on the things
that make us money. Now, the question you might be asking yourself, which
would be the right question, is, how do we sell things to rich people? What do
they actually want? Rich people are pretty specific. So, we have something
called the rich desire pyramid, which is how I teach all our 14,000 business
owners in order to sell more things at the boardroom. And if I owned a lawn
care business or was starting one in 2026, I wouldn't be focused on $99 lawn
mowing for the masses. I'd be building a $10,000 commercial package because rich
clients don't want cheaper, they want better. And then, they'll send the wire
without a single follow-up. So, for this, let's talk about the get rich
pyramid. At the bottom of the pyramid, we have scarcity. That is the first
reason why rich people buy things. They buy it when there's not a lot of it. So,
that limited edition Hermès Birkin bag, that might be the thing that makes them
want to buy. Second, we've got privacy. That's why people fly on private jets,
have private security. That's why people have really big hedges and will buy
really big trees from your landscaping. Then we've got exclusivity. That's like
this is a special club nobody that can get into. That's why we have country
club memberships. That's why you're actually seeing experience memberships
pop up all over the country. Then we've got convenience. And that's
just my time is so valuable because I'm rich and I make a lot of money with my
hours, but I don't want to spend much. So hey, can you come to my house and
clean my car instead? So hey, can I have a concierge doctor that I pay $10,000 a
month to? Time. And then finally, we've got status. And status games are the
things people will pay more for than anything else. This is why people donate
entire buildings to their alma maters and get nothing back for it. What do
they want? They want their name in lights, right? So anywhere you can sell
somebody something that makes their name really big, they will write you a really
big check for it. So if you're thinking about starting a business, this might
mean can you put them on a billboard? This might mean we only sell a hundred
of these spots. That's called fake scarcity. This, selling to rich people,
is the number one reason why most business owners will make two to three x
more when we teach them our processes at Boardroom. We are going to help you
raise your prices and have your customers thank you for it. Next, the L,
which is leverage through distribution. Build distribution first. What does that
mean? Get an audience. AI has made it easier than ever to build products, but
harder than ever to get people to care. So let's think about this for a second.
Look at the daily amount of time spent with media. We are at an all-time high.
Friends and family. Now whether that's good or bad, I don't really know. In
fact, I think it's probably bad, but it's certainly a way for you to make
more money. We see the usage by almost every age cohort on Facebook, YouTube,
TikTok going up. That means the CAC is up three to five x since 2014. So every
founder should have a newsletter or a YouTube channel. Somewhere you can build
your audience. And by the way, it's way cheaper. Renting attention is a tax.
That's what we do when we use things called ads. We are paying a tax to Mark
Zuckerberg. When you own the attention, that's
actually a compounding asset. That's when you have your YouTube or your email
list. So every startup now needs a founding content creator. That's a quote
from my friend Balaji Srinivasan, who was the CTO of Coinbase. And I want you
to think about this in a couple different ways. Video and podcasts, for
instance, these things are up in a huge way. Not only are we seeing customers
acquired through here go up, we're also seeing usage go up. So you can actually
acquire customers at a much lower cost on video and podcast than you can, for
instance, on email. Well, what about B2B? So let's say you sell things to
other companies. When you sell things to other companies, your CAC is even lower.
CAC stands for client acquisition cost, by the way, if you don't know that. One
of the most important stats you can have if you run a business. And if you don't
know about that, make sure you dive into the world of CAC. We can do a video on
it. If you guys don't know about it, tell me in the comments. Now, what's
fascinating about this is that it tells you that customer acquisition cost
overall is actually increasing. So over time, it is more expensive now than ever
to create a customer. You've seen it go up like this. And this is because we're
talking about paying ads for our customers or what's called PPC, pay per
click. And this PPC game is a very competitive one to play. It is also why
Facebook, for instance, is the most expensive place to do ads typically over
time. In fact, Facebook can be even more expensive than TV these days because of
something called CTV, which we won't get into today, but if you want to, tell me
in the comments and I can explain the difference between the two. So you have
to start thinking about what is the social media platform with the highest
ROI for you and anyone else. And look at this bad boy. Where are you guys located
right now? Where are you watching? Oh, it's YouTube. And YouTube actually has
the highest return on investment, which is probably why people want to advertise
on my channel to all of you guys. And I veto them all. So only the right
company. Then we've got Facebook, then we've got Instagram, and then we've got
all the way down to LinkedIn, which is actually a really hard place to
advertise. But it's not just enough for you to have a distribution or a moat,
you've got to have systems. And the systems with AI is something that if you
don't get, you'll lose. You've got to be AI first, not AI eventually. While
everyone and their mom I know is now using ChatGPT in some way, that is not
actually where the money always is. It's in AI-powered businesses, not AI-written
emails. And I want you to think about it like this. We own a company called
ResiBrands. It's one of the largest trade franchises out there. And when we
do our ResiBrands franchises, when we do their SEO, we do something called AI
programmatic SEO, which is a fancy way of saying we try to get their listing on
Google all over the place everywhere. So if you need a painter in Tuscaloosa, if
you need a window cleaning in Piedmont, North Dakota, we're going to have a
custom site that looks like it's right there in Piedmont with you, all powered
by AI. That's not ChatGPT and questions on how to write something. This is
taking AI to the next level of the game. You're going to have to think about how
to do this in your business. I want you thinking about clearly describing what
is going to make you more money in your business. And one of the things that I
think not enough people think about today in making money in 2026 is agentic
workflows running service businesses. Agentic workflows kind of works like
this. First, you understand the problem. The AI agent gathers detailed
information from the employee asking clarifying questions like, do you have
this problem because Zapier's not connected to HubSpot? Very standard
questions that you might ask an employee. Then step two, they're going
to execute diagnostic steps, which basically means based on the user's
responses, your responses, the AI is going to tell you different
problem-solving steps. It might say, "Well, let's ping Zapier and see if
that's working. Let's check the network. Maybe that's off. Let's set to specific
time changes so that your emails get sent when you want it. Let's retrieve
and summarize all this information and I'm going to give you a little plan. I'm
going to be working behind the background on a bunch of stuff you can't
figure out, I'm going to give it to you." Then there's adaptive tool use. If
the AI detects a server-side issue, it can call an internal monitoring tool or
an API to check for outages. This is kind of cool because it's basically
working behind the scenes for you. It can also iterate based on results. So
let's say it doesn't work. The action doesn't actually fix the problem. The AI
adjusts its approach and it changes ideas. It goes, "Oh wait, not this, but
that." This isn't ChatGPT, it's literally having a little robot figure
out your issues and reattempt, reattempt, reattempt instead of just
saying, "Hey Cody, I couldn't figure this out." Then finally, it finalizes
and learns. If the issue is fixed, the AI logs the solution and then in the
future, it never asks you again. It just remembers exactly what works last time.
This makes troubleshooting or repeating yourself kind of irrelevant. And if it
doesn't work, then it basically will send you a nice little report and say
like, "This didn't work, this didn't work, this didn't work. What else are we
thinking?" So if you could imagine today, the tasks that you hate the most
and another AI running it for you, that's what's happening. In 2026, it's
not about using AI, it's about architecting around the AI. And I think
AI will do things in the future and they already are, like AI sales reps, AI
quote systems, AI dispatch. I'm not talking hypotheticals. We've invested in
companies doing this right now. I want you to first play the systems game, but
then I want to add one little extra one on for you, which is the human game. The
scarcer human touch becomes, the more valuable it gets. I want you to think
about most of us young people today. If you had to choose between text and phone
call or door knocking, which one are you
choosing? You're probably going to text, right? Because it's easier, because it's
less scary, because there's less friction. Well, what does that mean? In
today's world, the easier something is, the less effective it is. And so what
you actually want to do is you want to put humans in spots where it really
matters to have interpersonal connection. Because most people, their
ability to communicate has gone down. In fact, interpersonal sales skills among
young workers, look at this, it's plummeting. In a world addicted to fast
responses technology, being a human who can actually connect, you're going to
make more money, especially in small business. And the interesting part about
having a human in the loop, I think in the future, we are going to pay a
premium to talk to a human. You're going to go to restaurants, there will be AI
plus robots doing everything, then those things will glitch out and you'll be
like, "For the love of all the toli, I want the latte, but hold the almond
milk." And they'll just keep pouring the almond milk in there and you're going to
lose your mind. And for the ability to talk to a human,
you're going to pay a premium. And that for you young people, I think will be
your ace card going forward. And then like lastly, I want to go a little
Emerson on you. Before you think about making your new business in 2026 and
making your millions, ask yourself this question. What do you want your obituary
to say? Might sound a little heavy, but the truth is you're not just building a
business. This is a legacy. Warren Buffett has this last letter quote that
I love. He says, "Eventually someone else will be running Berkshire." That's
his business. The measure of our success is not just in returns, but in
stewardship, which is a fancy way of saying, "When I die, does this thing
continue after me?" I think too many people think they're going to build the
next Tesla. Got news for you and for me, you probably won't. But not enough
people are asking the right question. What story will this business tell when
I'm not here to tell it anymore? Am I going to actually want to do this thing
when it is hard and impossible and everybody's is stacked against me
because that is what it's going to take to win in business. So in 2026, skip the
startups that sound sexy but don't scale. Don't chase cool. We chase cash
flow. Own the thing nobody's bragging about because that's where the money's
hiding and that's how we play the quiet game really loudly. 2026, I want you
guys to be millionaires and the way that you're going to do that is not that
complicated. You're going to move faster than everybody else. You're going to
have speed. You're going to pay attention to the industry and not focus
on whether it's cool or not but whether you have a high likelihood of success.
You're going to go in an industry where the trend is already working in your
favor with generational wealth. You are going to obsess on cash flow in your
business because businesses need cash. You are going to sell things to rich
people because they pay more. So we're going to find the affluent and you are
going to look at leverage in distribution to get your buyers before
you even have something to sell them. Then finally, you're going to layer
systems and AI on top of it and remember that humans get added in the loop at the
moments where you need a little bit of magic. If you do these things, 2026 will
be your richest year yet. 