We saw people lining up buying gold in
Singapore trying to just get in last
minute.
>> That's always the joke, right? When your
Uber driver starts to talk to you about
your portfolio, you got to sell. James
Street is on the verge of a blow up.
There's short gold, long Bitcoin,
leverage to the moon. We were not
expecting this to halt multiple times
down. [music]
>> When gold tops out, liquidity flows into
Bitcoin and crypto. That's when bull
runs begin. Don't get shaken out by
short-term manipulations.
Welcome to episode four of the Trading
Floor podcast. I'm Garrett Dryen. I'm
here with my partner Tim aka the
Colorado Whale and we've got Kurt as
always in the background controlling
things. So, it's October 23rd, Thursday.
So, about a week ago on Friday, we had a
really great gold trade. And Tim, I want
to talk about this trade today because
this was a mean reversion trade, a
parabolic short that we often take on
the desk. And for me, like it was super
interesting because for a lot of
reasons, it was the same old trade
playbook that we always take. And for a
lot of reasons, it was dramatically
different, right? Because it's gold. We
don't usually trade gold, right? This
was a case where gold had gone on a
massive run, blew through 4K, went
parabolic, and set up a nice short on a
Friday. So just some backdrop, Tim, like
gold's the first asset class to hit 30
trillion in market cap and it's had its
best year since 1979. So gold's been in
play, right? And when when things are in
play, we trade them. So um where do you
want to start? Because I know there are
a lot of places that we could touch on
in this trade. There are kind of stories
within this trade. Um where where do you
want to start?
>> I think we got to start with all of the
headlines that I was seeing. I've never
seen gold talked about more than I did
last week and this was our first time
trading a mean reversion in gold and
rightfully so. Uh it took over Twitter
but I thought what the most interesting
like aspect was just the mania that came
with this gold breakout. We saw people
lining up buying gold in Singapore and
Australia trying to you know just get in
last minute as gold was never going to
go down. It was pretty crazy.
>> Yeah. I mean and that's that's one of
the big factors right on a mean
reversion play like this and and the
things that we would compare this to are
you know some of the bigger plays in
this playbook like over the last few
years we had SMCI blow off last year we
had MSTR blow off last year and like we
even had uh Beyond meet like this week
right where something just gets out of
hand right it can be at the end of a
trend it can be something like Beyond
that that just went nuts for three days
but generally we're looking for
something that speeds speeds up, right?
And and gets unsustainable.
And you're looking for that really quick
unwind that'll often happen intraday
that gives us like a fantastic
riskreward and like great context for
this short. And like you said, it just
it just so happened in gold. Um, and
around the time of these trades, like
one thing I've noticed is that if you
think about it, like it's it's max
euphoria and like whatever asset class
we're trading and that was gold was no
exception because like you said, we had
um all kinds of news surrounding this
like people I mean people lining up to
buy gold bars um
>> physical gold
>> physical gold around the world, you
know, who are just hearing that like you
have to you have to own gold. And I
mean, they may be right. I'm not saying
they're wrong because this was just a
one-day pullback that we traded or even
a multi-day pullback. Like, we're not
saying that like gold's done, but you
start to hear these kind of news stories
around that short-term top that we're
looking for.
>> And I think it's interesting whenever
something gets so mainstream, like what
it reminds me of was back in 2018 with
Bitcoin when it topped. So, I was in
college then and I remember everyone
started talking about Bitcoin. Like I
had buddies that now were starting in on
Bitcoin and thinking, you know, we're
traders now. And when you start getting
it to be mainstream, you know, Uber
drivers talking about it, you know, your
parents are talking about it. That's
when you start to get that max euphoria
and that's what started getting us
really interested in that short.
>> Yeah. That that's always the joke,
right? when your Uber driver starts to
talk to you about your portfolio you got
to sell or you know if your grandmother
calls you and says
>> like hey you know do you hear about
gold?
>> Exactly. And so some of the pieces
around this like these these are we kind
of collected some news pieces that came
out this day. Like first of all massive
price target increases by Bank of
America. I mean they raised it to 5,000.
JP Morgan um Jamie Diamond says 10,000
is possible. And again like they might
be right. We're not saying they're
wrong. It's just it just so happens that
this kind of stuff often comes out
during that max forest stage where it's
about to unwind. And and the main thing
for us is the chart, right? Like we
we'll show this chart. Um that's the
thing that gets our attention that sets
up the trade. And then of course um then
you're kind of looking for these other
signs of um max hyster uh max euphoria.
And you know it was really interesting
like we had people buying up uh lining
up to buy physical gold. Um, Yahoo
Finance basically put out a big article
showing showing images of these people
in line like throughout the world like
different countries. For some reason,
this just is catching on.
>> Hundreds of people,
>> hundreds of people. Um, and and and
everyone loves to talk about Bitcoin
with this. Like the headline for Yahoo
is people are lining up to buy gold. Is
Bitcoin losing retail demand?
>> Yeah. What does that make you think?
because that has always been a
comparison u with people buying Bitcoin
and selling their gold or people selling
their Bitcoin and buying gold.
>> Yeah. So, two things like one,
Bitcoin's never really acted like gold,
right? If you're just like watching the
action, watching the correlations, like
I know that it's supposed to be like a
digital gold, then that's an argument um
from a lot of people, including Michael
Sailor, right, who tout Bitcoin. I've
always seen it as a risk asset, right?
It's a technology that um has a lot of
people on the long side, a lot of people
on the short side. You know, maybe it it
hasn't fully been proven, so it's still
very speculative. So, it tends to trade
higher when there's risk appetite in the
market, right? And that's not really the
same thing as gold, which it acts very
much like a store of value. Um, and so I
I see them as different. Maybe someday
Bitcoin will actually like take on that
role, right, when it becomes less
volatile, more stable, but right now it
feels more like a speculative asset. So,
I I tend to not compare the two. What do
you think? It's funny just to even throw
this. We saw another tweet from uh Bill
Graass that said gold has become a
momentum and meme asset. Just to add to
that point, uh they started saying, you
know, last week that it was a momentum
asset now. But I agree. Um if you look
back at the historical chart of Bitcoin,
I wouldn't say it's acted similar to
gold. Um I don't think there's a
onetoone correlation between, you know,
holding gold and holding Bitcoin.
>> All right. And a lot of people, a lot of
the, and we'll talk about this, you
know, at the end, I think, but a a lot
of the Bitcoin people out there love to
say when gold tops out, Bitcoin takes
over,
>> right? That's see you see all over the
internet.
>> Um, we have yet to see that happen this
time. And another article, Financial
Review. Um,
yeah, people are queuing in the streets
to buy gold. Should you? It's hard to
ignore FOMO when Australians are lining
up to buy physical gold and silver, but
with prices surging, is it too late to
get in? And what does this retail frenzy
tell us about the next market move? So,
I mean, these articles are just creating
FOMO,
>> literally. And that kind of sounds more
sane than some of the ones we've seen.
>> That's true. and and you know, we're
getting retailers suspending sales. So,
you know, a tweet by the Gold Telegraph,
Japan's largest gold retailer suspended
sales of small bullion bars for at least
a month. And again, like this is all
coming out within 24 hours of our trade.
So, that's like, you know, they're
they're just done selling, right? It's
either, you know, no more supply or or
what, right? And when I was looking at
all of these articles and tweets, what I
was kind of thinking is like this just
adds to the euphoria and it gets us
excited for the short. By no means is
that like a signal for the short, but
how would you say you took any of these
as information? I mean for I I find it
interesting because you just seem to see
this kind of stuff around these moments
like when these trades are setting up
technically.
You tend to see price target increases.
You send you tend to see shorts throwing
in the towel and then you tend to see
these like euphoric headlines, right?
Because it hits the mainstream. It's
like the thing that's performed the
best. It starts to go parabolic.
Everyone looks at the price and says,
"Well, what's going on here?" Right?
like I there's there must be something
that I got to know. So all of a sudden
it makes it makes headlines, right? Um
and you know we've got like there there
was even a story about Jane Street
blowing up.
>> Oh yeah, I saw that. Which I don't know
if that's legit or not but that's a big
firm like a massive firm which that
would be shocking but they were short
gold right? That's what it was. They had
like a big short position in gold.
Yeah, they were apparently they were
short gold, long Bitcoin and and
leveraged and and so I mean the rumor
was that
>> that uh Jane Street is on the verge of a
blow up. They're short gold, long
Bitcoin leveraged to the moon. Bitcoin
pukes under 100K and gold rallies above
5K, they're liquidated by close, right?
So that's just that argu I don't know
how true that is, but again like these
are the kind of funny things that'll
come out around the top where it's like
oh someone's blowing out like that's
that's an explanation for this parabolic
end of the move, right? So let's
actually show this chart um just so that
we can we can look at this parabolic
move because this is really our trade.
So Kurt, if you could please bring up
image number six. This is a daily chart
of GLD. So that's the ETF for gold. um
you know going back over a year and this
is this goes up until the day of the
trade. So this is the way the chart
looks like when we're setting up this
trade. So we took this would be
Thursday. We took the short on Friday
after a gap up in the futures and and a
kind of roll over in the morning in the
pre-market into the regular trading
hours open. Um which we'll show. But,
>> you know, I I really want to point out
that like when we playbook this play,
when we find this repeatable pattern and
the reason why it didn't kind of matter
if it was gold or popcorn, you know, it
really doesn't matter. But when
something has a big run like we're
trading popcorn futures now, when
something has a big run like this and
then starts to speed up, right, the rate
of ascent increases and you get like
one, two, three gaps in a row. Um, and
you can measure this. You can look at
ATRs above a moving average. You can use
Ballinger bands. Um, or you can just
look at the chart and see clearly that
this is accelerating. And it's
accelerating to a point that um, often
becomes unsustainable. And so we like to
look for these snapback mean reversion
plays when a chart starts to get like
this. And so the point that we're
making, right, Tim, is that when charts
get like this, you often see a lot of
positive news stories around whatever
asset class this is.
>> The craziness ensues. But wait, Garrett,
with this chart, what uh are the moving
averages that we're looking at here?
>> That's a 50 and a 200 day.
>> So I believe
>> the 50 is at around like 360.
>> Yeah,
>> that's crazy. I mean, it's 36 points
above, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And then you get
that acceleration like you said in the
gaps and like gold isn't one that I
don't think I've seen it accelerate even
close to this kind of fashion.
>> Right. Yeah. And you know, I mean, the
reason this is such a different trade
than we're used to making,
um, is in my opinion that a lot of times
when we see stocks do this, it's also
coupled with some sort of overvaluation
or, you know, it's it's it's gotten way
ahead of itself. It belongs at lower
prices, right? The fundamental people
step in and, you know, say it shouldn't
be up here. Like we were talking about
RGTI, you know, last week and, you know,
even SMCI gets gets out of hand, you
know, during its run last year. And you
can make a strong argument that this
could be the top for a while where gold
was a little bit different because
you've got a major asset class that has
a huge story behind it and a huge driver
for why this run has been happening. And
that story hasn't changed. So, it's
still going on and for all we know, gold
just pulls back, consolidates, and goes
higher, right? Unless that narrative
starts to shift.
>> Um, is is that did you look at that as
like a different trade because of that
factor or do you just not care?
>> Oh, 100%. That's a major factor I would
say. And it's with the sustainability
like we saw with the quantum with beyond
like they're at prices that we know
aren't sustainable over the long term.
So at some point we're expecting them to
get closer to their fair value and it's
more of like a short squeeze. And this
wasn't you know a just a heavily shorted
beyond meat. This had not even one
driver multiple drivers that caused this
massive run in this breakout. So I do
yeah definitely look at it as separate
and different. And that also is why like
with this short if it doesn't work you
don't want to press it too hard because
it's not one where you have that
conviction that it should be lower.
We just know this is a setup in our
playbook. It has gone parabolic
technically speaking and we have that
trade.
>> Yeah. And you can you can get you can
still get a very good technical snapback
in something like this, especially
during a max euphoria moment, right?
Which is the key for us. And I think the
other thing that was going through my
mind was that often with these Beyond
Meat and SMCI and even MSTR,
um, you don't
sometimes with these equities, you
expect like a limit down moment, right?
Where it just totally unwinds, right?
like everyone who's been riding the
train gets off like fear starts to
increase in the longs and um the shorts
all all got blown out and there's just
this moment of complete unwind and
sometimes it'll happen on like a
Thursday or Friday where all the options
are expiring so you even have the
dealers who are doing their thing like
unwinding their hedges and the whole
thing just goes down in a straight line.
>> Yeah. sometimes even limit down limit
down limit down right like like beyond
meat like I think SMCI went limit down
so
this is not something I was expecting
with gold
>> we weren't expecting to hit the limit
down that Friday [laughter]
>> yeah you never you never know but I
think in terms of like when we're
trading something we always like to
think about like how is it going to
trade or how is it trading and then like
how might we expect it to trade right
because wouldn't you say that kind
informs us in terms of like how we're
going to trade it and approach the name.
>> I would say that's one of the bigger
things I've been focusing on this year
is the nature of the stock because all
stocks even if you're like trading tech
stocks within the same sector there
usually is a nature to how they trade.
You know some kind of back fill they
retest breakout levels some you know are
like Tesla where sometimes they're off
to the races if they have the volume and
they get above their breakout level. And
with gold coming into the day, yeah, we
were not expecting this to halt multiple
times down. We thought it could
potentially be a little more grindy
price action and yeah, that was kind of
what we were focusing on. But with that,
still a pattern. We were still looking
for very similar setups. Um I would say
the other area that came into play with
that is how we target targeted um our
like profit taking where our targets
were at.
>> Yeah. I mean the targets might be a
little bit closer. I know with something
like an equity sometimes you're
expecting it to just completely engulf
like the last day or two. Um
>> and the best ones usually do engulf the
prior two days of that parabolic.
>> Right. Right. Yeah. And and I mean like
the different ways that a stock can
trade
can really inform us whether we can be
like hitting lows in something or
whether we have to
>> start to try to short the pops. And like
I know for me like we talked about RZTI
last week and I mean that one was
particularly tricky for me because it
didn't unwind in an aggressive way and
partly because it didn't have that
parabolic move. So it was a little bit
more of an orderly stairstep.
kind of unwind that that occurred over
multiple days. And so even if we're
catching it on the day where it cracks,
we weren't really getting that panic,
that kind of panic selling that you get
when you can really just hit lows and it
flushes and just keeps going. Like I
remember I would work into a short
position around some turn, right? So up
at resistance, okay, it can't get
through this. This looks like it's where
the turn's going to be. This
consolidation's probably going to roll
over because it looks like this is
backside, right? It still looks like a
short. I'd work into a position and it
would be a great position of strength.
It would roll all the way back to the
lows and then it would consolidate and
break lows and I would just hit it hard.
I would add a bunch there and then it
would
>> and then it would just it would just
rebid and then just rip in your face and
then kind of make another lower high and
then kind of roll over again. And so
after a while, you know, recognizing
that kind of price action being like,
okay, this is how RTI in this case is
trading, I need to adjust how I'm
approaching this stock. And so it was
good to kind of think about the fact
that we're trading gold going into the
trade to think about, okay, like how
might this trade? Like how does gold
usually trade? Like we watch it enough,
like we've traded it before. Um we're
not specialized gold traders, but you
can kind of see the es and flows and how
it moves. And even the last time it came
off, um didn't someone put like an
analog in our chat where we were kind of
looking at the few other times that gold
came off?
>> Curtis did. Yeah. from the pullback the
pretty much the only major pullback that
we had um on this big run which was I
believe it was 109.
>> Yeah. What do you think? Like th this is
this is a huge move and it's really hard
to talk about
really setting this short up without
understanding like how we got here,
right? Because we're talking about the
drivers of gold and the and the story
not changing, right? So what is that?
Um,
>> yeah,
>> let's kind of let's let's rewind a
little bit and talk about this breakout
on this chart and and how this move
started and and why gold moves the way
it does because I think that like
there's so much misunderstanding out
there about like what gold is and and
why the price changes
>> 100%. Like I I can't tell you how many
times I've heard gold is just worth what
people want to pay want to pay for it
>> for jewelry
>> like as [laughter]
if it's like an imaginary thing that's
just based on fear. And I mean first of
all I think anything's worth just what
people are willing to pay for it, right?
Isn't that that's like the definition of
a market. Um,
>> yeah,
>> but let's let's rewind and go to some of
these drivers and I and I want to throw
up um I want to throw up the Jackson
Hole chart and this is going to be the
beginning of this consolidation and
let's just talk about this breakout as
we talk about the drivers of this trade.
So Tim, what do you what do you see as
like the major catalysts and fundamental
drivers uh for gold on this particular
run?
>> Yeah, we'll get to the short later as
fun as it is. Uh but it really started
at Jackson Hole where we had Powell
pivoting where he was going to focus
less on inflation and the big takeaway
was we have the path to rate cuts. We're
going to cut rates. And on that um
Jackson Hole announcement, gold ripped.
GLD absolutely ripped and it feels like
forever ago, but we took that trade. We
didn't get in on the initial reaction,
but once it held higher, that's when we
started getting into our gold swing,
>> right? So that's what that's the
catalyst that broke it out. It was the
ped the Fed pivot, right? So
>> yeah,
>> we're gonna we're going to lower rates.
We're going to we're going to be cutting
rates. And that's a big deal for gold.
Why? Because gold likes lower rates.
>> Gold loves lower rates. And gold doesn't
pay dividends, you know, it doesn't have
anything. So when rates are lower,
there's more of an incentive to buy gold
rather than putting your money into
savings or bonds,
>> right? So it's like relative to
everything else that does have a yield.
Um when rates are low and those yields
go away, the the value of gold goes up.
And that that makes perfect sense,
right? Um what's what's another driver
of gold?
>> Yeah, so we had a ton of central banks
buying throughout this year. Like the
inflows gold has had over the last 10
weeks. I saw it was 34.2 billion. Yeah.
Look at this Garrett. Look how insane
that is. Especially even towards the end
where you did get kind of like what we
would look at if it's a chart is almost
a blowoff at the end in terms of the
inflows.
>> But it's been steady. What are we What
are we looking at here? What are This
goes back to 2017.
>> Yes.
>> And we're looking at the
>> the gold and silver inflows.
A four-week moving average of the
inflows. So this is all the money
>> flowing into the gold market. Yes.
>> Throughout the last like 20 years.
>> And on so it's on the yaxis that's just
in billions for each of the um weeks.
[clears throat]
And overall it added up to 34 billion
which is insane. That's a lot.
>> Okay. So these are the biggest inflows
that we've ever seen.
>> Yes.
>> And and like to your point like you
think that's mostly the central banks
around the world buying gold.
>> Yes.
>> Because that's that has been what's
happening. So like a few things that
came out a few articles that came out
during the day of the trade. So India's
gold reserves have crossed the 100red
billion mark for the first time. Um and
then you know you've got all these
emerging markets. So clearly like
Russia, China, India, those are huge.
Yes.
>> But you even have like Poland, Kazak,
Kazakhstan, Turkey, China, Czech
Republic, they're they're still buying
gold. So like
>> it's interesting that this is a
worldwide thing and it's not just
institutional flows. It's not just
traders, but it's it's central banks.
>> Yes.
>> Right. Who are who are trying to do
anything they can do to not rely on the
dollar,
>> right? Because you know, if you look
back to the Russian invasion and um and
kind of the stuff like the stance that
the US took and you know, of course,
dollar being like the world currency um
dominantly we're, you know, we're you
know, US is trying to weaponize the
dollar. So, if you can kind of get off
that the best you can, um you're going
to. And that's kind of like what we're
seeing across the the world right now.
Um
Steve Hank on Twitter said, "Global
central banks are now sitting on more
gold than at any time in the last
decade." So,
>> yeah. Wow.
>> Clearly, clearly a big driver and we're
not seeing like a slowdown in that at
all. So, that's still there. We're still
in a rate cutting cycle. Um the other
big driver of gold is inflation, right?
Because really gold likes low real rates
and real rates are basically the rates
minus inflation, right? Adjusted for
inflation. So high inflation, low rates,
good for gold. So if inflation's not
coming down as fast as the rates are,
then that's going to be a driver for
gold. And then on top of that, you've
got um central banks buying all over the
world. And so Tim to the point of No,
you go ahead.
>> I was about to say I got excited because
it's crazy. It's not even just that like
gold also is just a safe haven asset and
we had the geopolitical tensions with
the tariffs this year which is another
driver,
>> right? Yeah. You have a million things.
And so like like to me when when people
are like I don't I don't know what gold
is. like it's just this random thing
that um is basically worth what people
are willing to pay and it's just based
on fear. It's like there are there are
real drivers for it. And the way that I
like to look at it is gold is just this
rock that doesn't change. And like
everything else in the world is changing
around it. And therefore like based on
how these things are changing around it
like interest rates, inflation, the
dollar, all the other currencies, the
value of this rock that doesn't change
will change because everything is
relative to everything else. Like so a
good example of that is currencies. So
you've got the dollar, but when we talk
about the dollar, it's always priced in,
you know, another basket of currencies
like the euro for instance, right? You
can look at the dollar euro pair. So the
dollar strengthens against the euro.
That's the dollar going up. Um, but what
what if the dollar is just sitting there
going sideways, not going higher, not
going lower, but and and again relative
to the euro, relative to all the other
currencies, we're not really seeing any
movement in the currencies. But what if
all of the currencies are being devalued
at the same time?
>> Yeah. Well, that's very interesting.
>> Like, how do you express that? Well,
then gold is going to increase in value.
So, that's that's like how I like to
think about gold. Um,
>> it's a good real quick.
>> Yeah, real quick. So, so why have the
central banks been buying? So, Walter
Bloomberg on Twitter says gold erodess
dollar's reserve dominance. Gold now
accounts for about 30% of global central
bank reserves, up from 24% in June.
Boosted by price gains and
diversification away from the dollar, US
dollar reserves have slipped to 43% from
60% in the early 2000s, pressured by
policy. So that's what we're saying is
like the world is trying to get off the
dollar a little bit and and that's been
a big driver. Um, the gold telegraph
says in an article that they recently
put out, "Nations have been pushed to
seek alternatives. When money becomes a
mechanism of control rather than trust,
countries look for neutral stores of
value and settlement systems. Gold plays
a powerful role. So, none of this is
changing based on our little short trade
off the high. Yeah, [laughter] none of
that is uh debunked or invalidated in
any way.
>> Right. So, so back to Jackson Hole, we
get the Fed pivot that sends gold.
That's a great catalyst for gold. It
sends it to the top of the range. It
breaks out. We We make that breakout
trade and of course we sell way too
early.
>> We tried not to, but it was I mean, you
can't not sell early with something like
that move. It's so hard. Yeah. Yeah.
Absolutely. So, so then we get this
beautiful trend off this great narrative
that we're talking about and it starts
to blow off. And so, not until it gets
parabolic at the end of that move are we
really starting to talk about, hey, gold
could be a good short at least for an
intraday trade, maybe for a swing, maybe
for a good pullback because it's such a
great technical signal. I wouldn't want
to short gold when it's just grinding
higher. I wouldn't want to short maybe
anything when it's just grinding higher.
And that's kind of one of our rules,
right? If we're trying to mean revert,
if we're trying to short something that,
you know, as they say, is up too much,
um, we really want to see that
acceleration to give us the signal that
something is unsustainable. And you
know, like we talked about RGTI last
week, that's a little bit different
because those were very overvalued and
they were up a lot and it never really
gave us that parabolic move, which to me
would have been a much better setup for
that short. Um, but with something like
gold, even though it still has these
fundamental drivers, if it starts to go
parabolic like that, um, at the end, we
we still like the trade. And so, let's
talk about this short. Yeah, let's get
to the short. But in general with the
front side, you're completely right. You
never want to step in front of the front
side. And with something like gold, with
the fundamental thesis that we said, it
kind of helped us to avoid the front
side. Like that wasn't even something we
were looking at at all up until last
week,
>> right? And you you start to get those
few gaps in a row that that go straight
up and that that really gets your
attention. And you know, it blows
through 4K and that's probably a big
target for a lot of people. And it
started to look a lot better.
>> Yeah, 100%.
>> This is the two-day picture leading into
our trade. So, the first day there and
then we get the after hours and the
pre-market into the Friday that we took
the trade. And what do you see here,
Tim?
First, I think it's interesting into the
trade, we started seeing some pullbacks
in gold that just reclaimed very hard
and it closes at highs. Like I remember
us watching that close and just almost
jaw-dropped seeing how strong that close
in gold was the prior day. Then it gaps
up, unable to follow through the next
day in pre-market
and pulls into the open. And that's kind
of we were already looking for the
short. Um, but that's how it was set up.
So, originally, yeah, that's what I kind
of saw. Super acceleration
on the prior day. You get your gap up.
So, another gap up and this is
potentially ready for the short.
>> Yeah, it's that it's that after hours
action like like you said, we close at
dead highs, squeeze into the close the
previous day, and then you just get that
blowoff like right away. I mean, I was
still on the desk at this time like
watching that and I I just remember
being like, man, like this is if this
isn't the trade tomorrow, then I don't
know what is because you you get that
kind of blowoff action, that kind of
parabolic. So, now we're going parabolic
on the daily and we're seeing some
parabolic moves on the intraday chart
after hours. Um, and then it couldn't
get through that high like you said,
trades back down, consolidates, and then
just kind of falls apart off the open.
>> You know what's interesting? Not to say
gold is a momentum asset or anything,
but it is interesting. You see usually
like a day or two before you get a
backside. you get those short setups
like it had in after hours in gold where
it like looks like it's backside like
that sold off really hard and then it
reclaims and it's not able to continue
to squeeze like not to compare but
beyond did something very similar in
pre-market yesterday.
>> Yeah. No, I mean you like you should be
comparing.
>> Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Like
this is uh this is what's so interesting
about this trade because it's gold. We
expect it to act differently. It's gold.
It has a narrative that hasn't changed.
Like we don't know if this could go a
lot higher. It's not an equity um that's
overvalued and it's not beyond meat that
might might be a zero for all.
>> It was almost bankrupt until they
eliminated debt. [laughter]
>> Yeah. Exactly. Yet we have the same
technical setup and it's doing the same
kind of stuff that these names do when
they blow off and set up for that mean
reversion day. Um, and that after hours
move like I mean we've seen that so many
times and then it kind of not being able
to take that out in the pre-market and
kind of rolling over into the close. I
mean that's that's very common, right?
>> 100%. So coming into this day, how are
you like game planning or planning for
this potential trade?
So, I'm already thinking because we
already saw the blowoff in the after
hours and it hasn't been able to get
through that high. The first thing I'm
thinking is like that's that's the hard
stop. Not that I'm going to make a trade
against that level because we're so far
away. Um, but I'm thinking like wherever
this trades off the open,
>> um, that's that's sort of the area where
it should not get through. Otherwise,
all bets are off for me until like I see
something else. Right. So, that's the
first thing is you have your levels and
then I'm looking at that 395 level. So,
you see that wick down in the after
hours and then that reclaim.
>> Yes.
>> And it kind of comes down to where it
was consolidating the day before and it
retested that in the pre-market. So,
that 395 was actually a pretty big gamma
level in the options market. A lot of
options volume was there, a lot of
options activity and it was also a
technical level here in the after hours
and pre-market. And so I'm thinking,
okay, we have the top of the range and
then we have the bottom of the range at
395. And if we can break that 395,
especially off the open, then maybe it's
not going to be able to reclaim like
maybe that starts the whole unwind. And
so I started getting in some in the
pre-market there, like right before the
open. you're kind of seeing it hold
below um you know the level where it
broke down from and it's consolidating.
And I was just thinking if this rebids
and trades higher off the open, I'll
just get right out. If it flushes off
the open um this kind of feels like the
consolidation that's going to start the
move and so I wasn't really sized for
that because it's like a pre-market
trade and I'm getting a feel for it, but
I did feel like it was worth kind of
getting in a little bit just to see if
that would happen.
>> Garrett, we're always on the same page.
I was literally about to ask you, how do
you size something like that in the
pre-market?
>> I was about to ask.
>> Yeah. I don't I mean, at this point,
like I don't have a great feel for it
yet because the market hasn't opened.
You I haven't been trading it. You know,
it's early, right? I don't want to just
blow out on like my first entry in the
pre-market. Um, and I'm certainly not
going to just get in something like that
and trade it all the way back to the top
of the range.
>> Definitely.
>> Um, so
I just I was just noticing this orderly
move off the highs, right, where it
flushes, holds lower cleanly, flushes
again, and then holds lower cleanly. And
I'm thinking, well, if this continues,
that's going to take it through that 395
level, which I think is significant. And
that should start the breakdown in gold.
And we know how these backside days
work. Like once it goes, it's not going
to reclaim that level. So, I just got
in, you know, I would say like a tenth
of the kind of size that I eventually
got in like during regular trading hours
just to see if it could flush and I
could start the trade. And so, you know,
when it flushes down, you know, I'm
covering a little bit and then kind of
keeping some and then looking for the
real trade. So actually Kurt if you
could put image number seven up please
we can zoom into the intraday
>> because yeah I didn't have any position
overnight. If you were a futures trader
you could have even maybe traded that
lower high at 402 but for me I was
looking for an intraday pattern after
the market open and I was stalking that
same area that 395 area.
>> All right and so so that second box is
kind of where it consolidated around
that 395. Right. So,
>> so what what were you thinking at the
open? And did you even have a plan for
>> like how you might execute this or are
you thinking more open-minded in terms
of I'm I'll just see what the price
action looks like and see if any of my
um patterns or you know spider sense
kind of hits me in the face.
>> Yeah. This is this is where it's fun cuz
like our team, we were kind of
expressing it in different ways and I
know me and you traded this differently,
but I was really looking for the
multi-day continuation. Uh looking for
the swing trade on this backside using
an intraday entry. Um but I was looking
to swing it. The 20-day was around 370
at that point. Um, I don't want to jump
back and forth too much, but there are
some interesting historical stats um,
which we could show um, in a little bit.
That kind of helped my view. Just to
show real quick, only four times has
gold been up more than nine weeks in a
row. Uh, you know, you look back, you
know, some fun years I traded all those
way back years. I'm just kidding. I
didn't trade them. But four instances,
so very small sample size, but what I'm
looking at there are those averages at
the bottom. So
after 9 weeks up in gold, on average 2
days after it that it was downg
6.5%.
And then if you jump over to the right a
month later, it was down 11%. So I
already knew there's a lot of meat on
the bone here. And this is parabolic
that I thought, you know, yeah, this
could move into 370 and into the 20-day
for sure. And I think these are a really
good area and great risk-to-reward for
that trade. And we could we could get to
how that played out, but that's what I
was thinking.
>> So, when you're thinking about that,
obviously the path it takes to get there
is important and you know, we can we can
talk about how that played out.
>> Yeah. But are are you thinking, okay,
I've got the stats. Like, I know this
can unwind. And you're probably looking
at the chart just knowing what we know
about this setup and also thinking,
>> yes, like I know this can pull back much
further just based on where the moving
averages are. Are you thinking, okay,
it's gold though, so
so what does that have to do with this
trade? like were you factoring that in
the fact that this is a an
aroundthe-clock
asset, you know, futures market um
global asset class or or did that not
even matter?
>> I thought of it um to be honest,
Garrett, like that's one of the main
review points I have from this trade. So
the way I traded it was I had the sim
similar um consolidation where we come
up retest VWAP we hold below and I
played that breakdown and I was risking
395
and I remember on the call saying like I
don't think this should get back above
395 and the problem there is exactly
what you're saying. We're like a lot of
backsides that's true. A lot of momentum
stocks that's true but this is
different. you know, it trades again,
yeah, overnight futures and it it was a
little too tight of a stop, um, is what
I came to find.
>> Yeah. And I will say that
gold has come off more since we've
>> I know
>> since we've made this trade and I I
think you were right about outlining
that. And I also think that
sometimes
the trade just doesn't work. So, like
what we're referring to is gold came all
the way back up and wicked
>> the highs.
>> Literally just wicked it.
>> It's like the the the all it wicked
through the alltime high and then just
came off again and then totally broke
down. So, it just made it very
difficult.
>> I almost want to stop there too cuz like
that is something that is frustrating.
But I almost want to make a point of
like that does happen. You know, it's
not the first time it's happened in a
trade. And I think what it is is
important is taking your stop. Like
there was a lot of big traders at the
firm that you know hit out in the
similar spot where above the high was
their stop. And sometimes you know it's
just unlucky. Like chalk it up as that.
>> Yeah. That it happens to the best of us.
That's for sure. And and you're right. I
mean, a lot of people a lot of people
got stopped out there and you know,
sometimes that can be information, too,
when you kind of know, oh man, that was
a stop run and it didn't go higher
>> and it couldn't go higher. Yeah.
>> And it starts to roll over again. Um,
>> yeah. So, you know, I Well, go ahead.
>> I was going to ask how you now looked at
it because you traded it differently and
more on a momentum side.
>> I did like I didn't want to have
anything to do with this damn thing
after Friday night, you know? So, like I
I was just thinking like I just want to
take advantage of this intraday move the
best I can. You know, it's Friday, we've
got zero DTE options.
>> That was a big point. Yeah.
>> And you know, I was trading those along
with stock. And I was also trading
silver because silver was relatively
weak and they tend to trade together and
that ended up being um an even better
trade. Like I was more sized in gold
because that was the main thing, but
silver was a lot easier to trade. Um,
and that was that was kind of nice to
>> That's an interesting point with the
lagard. We've seen that before, but is
that something you usually look to do
with trading the lagards?
>> Um, I just have it up on my screen.
>> And then you noticed an intraday. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, like I know because it's a
gold day, gold's in play that probably
silver will be too. And silver had a
great run, too. I mean, silver was
pretty pretty parabolic as well.
>> And they had their set of tweets.
>> Yeah, they did. And and so and and also
silver tends to sometimes act like a
leveraged goal, like gold, it's just
more volatile. It can really move. And I
just noticed that off the open. We don't
have a chart for silver here, but I
noticed off the open that it was weaker.
I noticed on the bounces it was weaker,
especially that afternoon bounce where
that third box is here on this chart.
>> Yes.
>> Um you know, silver couldn't even come
back to VWAP. like it stayed really
heavy and it got back down to the lows
way before gold did. So with all of this
information, I was like, well, you know
what? Like there's less risk of getting
stopped out in this silver. It can't
even rebet. Like it's these pullbacks
are really shallow. So I started to on
that bounce get into some silver short
SLV short stock and I basically swung
that down to the lows. And then there
was a point where I got out of the stock
cuz I was afraid it was going to bounce
and then I realized it didn't. So I
bought zero DTE SLVs and um it had kind
of like like one more one more move, one
more momentum move and just got out of
those. The reason I did that was because
I wanted to get out of the stock because
I didn't want to hold stock like all the
way back up to my stop or all the way
back up to my to the highs. But if I
just bought a little bit of zero DTE, at
least I knew how much I was going to
lose if this thing started to reverse on
me, right? Because that's defined risk.
You have a certain amount of premium.
And if it were to completely unwind, um
there's a good chance that that I would
make the same amount. So I kind of
converted my short stock into zero DTES
um when it broke the lows and um and I
was just kind of trading them both at
the same time. But pretty much um the
major shorts I put on were where these
boxes are here on the chart. And I was
mostly trading the puts and I did have
some stock that I was trading as well.
And the reason I do that is because I
tend to be much more nimble with the
stock. And so that kind of allows me to
hit in and out if I need to and read the
tape where sometimes I'll use the puts
to express a little bit of like a bigger
picture idea where I know I'm not going
to be quite as sensitive with those. I'm
not going to be as nimble and I'm really
going to hold them as long as it's
acting well. And um especially with the
zero DTS because sometimes you know when
they reverse on you they just go to zero
anyway. So
>> quick
>> you're not you're not hitting out.
>> You have a quote and I think this is
maybe two years old. You can shake me
out of my stock and never my calls or
never my puts.
>> Oh man,
>> that was maybe two years ago.
>> That's like, you know, that's not even
mine.
>> Oh, that's not even yours. I thought
>> No, I mean I say it, but that was that
was the the uh the great the great
Ricky.
>> Oh, that was Ricky
>> who I used to trade with. And he always
used to say, you can shake you can shake
me out of my stock, but you can never
shake me out of my calls.
>> It's such a good
>> And that's that's how he would trade,
right? they would, you know, you can you
can stop out of the stock, but at least
with the calls, you know how much you're
risking, so
>> you can sometimes use that to your
advantage. Obviously, there are moments
where
>> we're going to buy a lot more premium
than we're willing to risk and we're
going to manage that and that could be a
shorterdated option where we're being
super sensitive to the price movements
and we have a very close stop. Or it
could be a longerdated option that has
so much premium on it just because of
the time and we're just looking at the
deltas and we're trading it a lot more
like stock. Like we're going to we're
going to head out.
>> Definitely.
>> Um
>> here Garrett, let me do a little magic
trick for you. Kurt, could you pull up
uh image number two? Looks pretty
similar. That was the analog that Curtis
sent us on Friday.
>> Oh yeah. Okay, good. I'm glad you I'm
glad you put this in here. Um Kurt who
was on our team put this in the chat
saying you know when gold was
consolidating saying hey this could make
another leg like look what happened last
time this doing exactly the same thing
and um we all use that information. I
mean it's it's really great to find
these analysts. It doesn't mean it's
going to do the exact same thing but
it's just kind of showing how it usually
trades. I thought that was really
helpful
>> and it shows you it has the potential if
it's shaping up in a similar way for
that second leg.
which is very interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> But I just wanted to show that real
quick because I thought that helped, you
know, that day. It helped the team
seeing that.
>> Yeah, it it and it had that second leg.
So,
>> yeah,
>> it worked. It wor it worked out. Um
All right. So, a point about Friday
since we're talking about options.
Um, you know, like I said, anytime, and
I said this last week, like anytime we
come into a Friday, I love to remember
that there are zero DTE in anything that
you want to trade, right? And and I,
like I said, I really don't trade them
all the time. I really need a special
case to trade them. I kind of try not to
trade them, but I always want to know
that I can, right? because like the last
thing I want to do is buy some zero DTS
and just sit in something that is like
working in my favor but just sort of
grinding, right? Because that's not
really going to do the trick because you
need the volatility um to pay you,
right? Because it's got to get there
really fast. So, breaking news or
explosive breakouts or explosive
backside trades like this where you can
get like if we look on this gold chart,
once it breaks lows, it's like bam and
it just gets there really fast.
>> Yes,
>> that's the kind of stuff that I would
want when I'm buying zerodt calls or
puts. And so on this particular Friday,
um TF Metals report, this is on Twitter.
So TFMetals says, "This m this might be
a good time to remind you that today is
monthly NY option expiration day for the
big miners, the mining share ETFs,
the gold and the GLD and SLV ETFs." So
>> are you just thinking that could lead to
more options activity? Is that kind of
how you're reading that? The way that I
look at this and and you know this is
not a huge driver of the trade, but I
just find it interesting because a lot
of times these things just tend to
unwind during like expirations, right?
And so this was obviously a big
expiration,
>> right, for these instruments. But in a
way,
>> every single Friday is somewhat of an
expiration for whatever is expiring on
that Friday, right? if they're weekly
options, um it might be a big monthly
expiration, it might be quarterly, um
and yearly. But in this case, the fact
that it's a Friday always makes me more
interested in these trades because on
these moves higher, when they go
parabolic, we get a lot of call buying
and you get a lot of dealers who are
hedging off their positions because
they're selling the calls, so they need
to buy the stock. And sometimes you get
these gamma squeezes and the IV gets
juiced, the options premiums get juiced,
but what happens on Friday is all of
these options start to expire. So
anything that's out of the money starts
to go to zero. And when those options go
to zero, the hedging the dealers who are
hedging off these options have to unwind
their hedges because these options are
basically disintegrating. So they're
selling their stock. So, I think a lot
of times thinking about um especially if
a move is driven by options that if you
do get a move that starts in the other
direction on like a Friday, a lot of
that stuff is starting to come off the
books and you might get a faster than
usual move in the other direction.
>> That's great to think of that dynamic
because there usually is something that
fuels it and that would you put that
great.
>> Yeah. And like you know SMCI was a great
example that happened on a Friday. I
think MSTR happened on a Thursday. Um,
we didn't get that for beyond, you know,
that happened yesterday on a Wednesday.
>> Got too crazy.
>> Yeah. But but still, I think it's
something that's interesting to keep in
mind. What I want to ask you about, Tim.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that someone someone pointed out a
really interesting dynamic regarding the
London Open.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. like and and I didn't fully
understand this, but you did. And so I
want you to talk about this.
>> And I will preface, this isn't really
something I knew up until that Friday
and that short trade. Um, but there's a
trader in our Miami office um that was
talking to one of our team members where
at the close of the London Exchange,
basically what he said was, "I think
gold can trend after the London exchange
closes."
So I was like, "Oh, I why is that?" And
why it is is the London Exchange is like
the hub for physical gold. So there's a
lot of physical and um I'm trying to
basically a lot of physical uh gold
trading and spot trading going on during
that market hours. And then when it
closes, it switches to then just the
futures and hedge funds in institutional
buying where you kind of get your fund
driven trends potentially where on a day
like Friday where we're looking for the
backside. It was messy in the morning
and it just so happened right after the
London close it really cleaned up. So in
that we got that quick note from Josh in
Miami did a quick chat Gvt learned more
about it and that was just kind of
another check in favor and then when we
start started to see it trend um it
potentially confirmed it but I thought
that was just such a cool little tidbit
that helped. Yeah, cuz it it really
started to sell off like right at the
London Open. And I think
>> that this is just about the participants
that are in the market, right? And just
thinking about what those participants
might do because if you're talking
about,
>> you know, institutions and central banks
and and global um money flowing in and
out of gold, like we're we're talking
about that huge macro story that we were
just talking about. But if we're just
talking about futures traders and um
hedge funds, those are the types of
traders that are going to want to sell
on a day like this.
>> Yes. They're thinking similar to us when
gold makes new lows.
>> Exactly. They're going to want to take
profits or they're going to be shorting.
Um so I think that that was that was
pretty interesting and pretty keen um on
his part.
>> Part of me feels is there a model behind
that? Probably not. Someone's definitely
already our bet.
Yeah, exactly. Um, so I want to leave us
with this
>> because where where do we go from here,
right? Because
>> where do we go?
>> The trade's over. Um, we're still
watching gold because this narrative is
still here. It's still super
interesting. And this is what I saw on
Twitter nonstop over the weekend after
this trade was made. So, and this is uh
Oxnobbler, which is cryptonobbler. Um,
says gold starts dumping hard right
after US markets open. When gold tops
out, liquidity flows into Bitcoin and
crypto. That's when bull runs begin.
Don't get shaken out by short-term
manipulations.
>> Man, oh man.
>> So, everyone started buying Bitcoin
again because gold had one day down.
>> Yeah, exactly. in and in in my favorite
depressed options trader says says the
same thing like he took a screenshot of
his account and all the people talking
about rotating into Bitcoin, Bitcoin
versus gold, Bitcoin versus gold and
you've got basically
a million uh a million people supporting
Bitcoin, pumping Bitcoin, and you've got
probably one person pumping gold in in
Peter Schiff, right?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's literally actually
an army of influencers versus one.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I just found it
interesting because everyone's trying to
create this narrative that Bitcoin's
going to run. And so, I'm kind of
watching with a box of popcorn being
like it, you know, is this is this
actually real? Is this going to happen?
Is Bitcoin gonna start
>> is it going to start catching a bid? And
so, so far it hasn't. So, you know, it
seemed a little bit too too known, like
too much. It's too much. Everyone was
talking about it. I was like, how is
this going to be real?
>> And what I thought was interesting with
that point, cuz I was seeing some of
that too, and I think you said some
legs, like it's not like the gold thesis
is dead. So, like like we said in the
beginning with the drivers, like I don't
know if that dynamic really makes sense
when you have that big of the
fundamental thesis behind it. I don't
know.
Yeah. Yeah. Who know who knows if it's a
short-term thing or a big macro thing or
if it's just in people's heads. Like
maybe it has a sample size of two and
it's actually not real.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, they they saw this happen like
once or twice.
>> But um it's interesting nonetheless
because of the airtime it got. Like I
mean I saw I probably saw 30 accounts
>> talking about now comes the rally in
Bitcoin. So we'll see. Maybe maybe it
still happens. But it's just something I
found really interesting because it
became very popular to take that stance.
>> The historicals are interesting. Also,
the two-day move gold made about 6%.
>> Down.
>> Yeah. So, the fifth instance was right
on par.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> All right. Well, let's uh let's end it
there. And you got anything else for us,
Tim?
>> I wish I wore a gold chain.
>> Yeah, but you should have for this
episode. That would have been perfect. I
don't have that many. I don't have that
many.
>> All right. Thanks everybody for
watching. We appreciate you. And until
[music] next time, stay safe out there.