Here out in Beverly Hills with the
youngest self-made female billionaire in
the entire world, Lucy Guo.
>> Did your parents not feel any type of
way? Are you sure you really want to
drop out? Are you sure you're making the
right decision?
>> My dad was sending me angry emails for
probably up to a year and it was landing
in my spam inbox because they all look
the same. You are so dumb. You don't
have any risk calculation. How did I
raise such a dumb daughter? You're dumb.
>> Who got rich during the gold rush? It
wasn't all the people going out west
looking for gold, it was the people
selling the shovels.
>> There are a lot of companies that would
not exist if you asked for permission.
Like Uber is one example. They broke all
the laws, but they didn't ask for
permission and now they have become so
ingrained in society that they kind of
just had to exist.
>> How much did you sell the company for?
>> 26 billion or so. Like if I didn't
become a billionaire, I was a failure
because everyone around me was so
intelligent. It was very obvious that
everyone around me was going to be a
billionaire or was already a
billionaire.
>> If me and you died tomorrow and you had
one more message to leave with the
younger generation, what would that be?
>> I would say
>> What's going on everyone? Welcome back
to the School of Hard Knocks podcast.
I'm James and I'm here with Jack and
Josh and we have an incredible guest for
you all today, Lucy Guo. Lucy, it's
great to be here with you today.
>> Thank you for being here.
>> 100%. First of all, you have one of the
most incredible houses that we have ever
seen. I just have to say it's so
inspiring for the three of us. Three of
us became millionaires this last year or
so.
>> Congratulations.
>> Thank you. We appreciate it.
>> like the podcast is going well.
>> The podcast
>> And all the accounts.
>> podcast is growing and the businesses as
well.
>> Yeah.
>> around, you know, people like yourself
and it just causes us to think so much
bigger. So, where I want to kind of get
started though is I want you to take us
back to when you dropped out of school.
I think that there's so many
entrepreneurs, you know, funny enough,
him here, he's the one dropout out of
the three of us as well and you're kind
of at that crossroads where you have a
lot of expectations for maybe family
members, from parents, from people and
it's maybe looked down upon to kind of
make that decision, but you ultimately
did that. Take us back to when you made
that decision and what that ultimately
meant for you in that moment right
there.
>> Yeah, honestly it was a no-brainer. The
second that I heard that I got the Thiel
Fellowship, I was like, "Fuck it, why
not, right?" Um it was $100,000 to drop
out of school, which is already awesome,
but I also didn't view it as a risk
because um, I already had job offers
lined up and what's the worst case
scenario? Like I fail and I go back to
college, like that's not that bad. Or I
could take one of those job offers that
I did have and they were pretty
incredible job offers. So, um, for me, I
just I I felt like my learning was
capped in college, like I was learning
more going to these hackathons um, than
I was being in college and I didn't want
to waste any more time in college. Um, I
also knew like in my like risk
calculation uh, that it would most
likely open more doors for me because
when you drop out people just
automatically assume that you are
smarter than you are or that you're
going to be a prodigy, right? So, they
will want to meet you, they'll want to
mentor you, etc. Um, so ended up being
like one of the best decisions of my
life. Um, I dropped out and then I got
to hang around some really cool kids.
>> So, we're telling them to drop out of
school, is that what we're saying?
>> Yeah, drop out of school. I do think
that you should do like one to two years
of college though cuz um, I do believe
that there's no place in the world where
you're going to be uh, around um, people
of similar intelligence levels that all
want to make friends. Um, because even
when you like, you know, go get your
first new job, like most people already
have friends established um, and then,
you know, it's obviously kind of hard to
make friends in like high school, middle
school because like people made friends
in preschool already. So, it is and also
just intelligence levels are completely
different in those situations.
>> Did Did your parents not feel any type
of way or your family in terms of like,
"Hey, like are you sure you really want
to drop out? Are you sure you're making
the right decision?" Like what was that
conversation like?
>> Oh, they got so mad at me. I remember
So, my dad was sending me angry emails
for probably up to a year and it was
landing in my spam inbox because they
all looked the same, which is like, "You
are so dumb. You don't have any risk
calculation. How did I raise such a dumb
daughter? You're dumb." Like it was all
pretty much, you know, broken English,
same thing. Um, so I Google marked it as
spam. Um, I also remember they, you
know, cut off my phone, they cut off
like health insurance, all that um,
because they really like and I I get it.
Like they immigrated from China to
America to give their kids a better
future and um, education is how they got
a better future. And they really believe
that education was the number one thing
you could do to be able to be like raise
a future stable family, which is why all
Asians are like be a doctor, engineer,
or lawyer because those are high paying
jobs. So, I was basically disrespecting
them and through them they felt like all
their sacrifices were for nothing when I
dropped out. Um, so obviously they
weren't happy.
>> So, so you did kind of grow up in that
traditional sense, right? With I guess
the Asian culture being that there's
maybe some pressure to kind of go into
some of those more traditional jobs.
Were you exposed to something early on
that told you that, you know, I don't
want to necessarily go the traditional
route and I maybe want to do my own
thing and start my own business. Do you
can you take us back to that moment
where you first recalled being exposed
to maybe being your own boss or doing
something for yourself?
>> Yeah, that probably goes all the way
back to second grade. So, um, my Asian
parents realized that the best
punishment uh, was taking away my money.
I would like hide them in the middle of
Harry Potter books, like cash, and
somehow they be gone. I'm like, how did
you find it? It's literally in the
middle of the Harry Potter book. So, um,
I one day discovered PayPal um, and I
literally went to Home Depot, bought
like a Visa debit card, and then um,
made a PayPal account, and from there on
um, there was like this whole like
underground gaming world uh, where
people were, you know, selling them like
black hat items, etc. Um, so I basically
learned to make bots on Neopets and I
first started off like selling
NeoPoints, selling like rare pets, etc.
and then trading up on and um, botting
for like rare items. Um, and then I
started discovering and making websites.
So, I made a bunch of different
websites, like arcade game websites,
like streaming websites, um, and I got
addicted to like that feeling of
creating products that people use. There
was like an adrenaline rush where I'd be
like, oh my god, there's like 10,000
people on this website right now. Um,
mostly due to like StumbleUpon. It
wasn't like people who really actually
find a website, but it was cool. It was
a great feeling. Um,
so I think that was when I knew I like
wanted to build a company. Maybe I
didn't like fully know because uh, when
I was applying to college I wanted to be
a chemical engineer actually. Um, my
parents said no.
But I also wanted to like
I then learned that if I applied for
computer science, it actually gave me
the best chance at getting into college
because everything I had done from like,
you know, second grade was computer
science technically. So, um yeah. And
then maybe like the next point I knew
was just at hackathons where I again got
addicted to building products.
>> Lucy, you built one of the most
influential companies in the artificial
intelligence space. For you, obviously,
you know, dropping out of college and
kind of going your own route. But for
you, when was that first deep dive into
like AI? When when were you for
obviously, you did computer science when
you were in school, but like what was
that first deep dive for you? And I
think it'd be influential for the
viewers because there's so many people
who really need to be diving in and
taking advantage of that. So, for you,
how did you get that foundation and how
did that spark that chapter of your
career?
>> Yeah, so I would say that it was all an
accident. We didn't intend to be an AI
company. We were literally actually we
applied to Y Combinator with a
healthcare app. The idea was that we
would find the best doctors for certain
procedures and there's a whole lot of
reasons why that would have never
worked. But we ended up pivoting into
Scale. And when we pivoted into Scale,
uh it was called Scale API. We wanted an
API that would call doctors for us. Um
so we thought we were going to take over
the BPO industry, specifically call
centers. Um but what ended up happening
was, you know, we blasted every single
YC founder and we're like, "Hey, we have
an API for humans. What do you need
humans to do?" And the number one thing
that people kept on coming
for was data labeling. And then one of
our investors was like, "You know, with
data labeling, you can actually use AI
once you connect it with data and um
collect enough data." And we're like,
"Oh, well,
true." Um so we like rebranded from
Scale API to Scale AI. And then uh we
became like the picks and shovels of the
AI industry. So we helped every single
other AI company label data um to make
their models better because your models
are only as good as the data that you
provide it.
>> We were talking about this earlier
today, but again, you touched on it
again there and it's such a valuable
point I think for entrepreneurs, which
is the ability that you had to pivot,
right? The business that you initially
set out to build was to kind of disrupt
the call center industry, but you saw
that it was a much greater opportunity
with what you ended up turning the
business into. How important has that
skill been? Like how vital has it been
to your success knowing how to pivot and
when to pivot?
>> I would say it's been my entire success.
We actually started off with ClassPass
for clubbing, which is another terrible
idea, but um we knew to pivot very
quickly from that. And I would say I
generally make pivots um like 3 weeks in
um because too many uh founders I think,
actually people in general, they fall
into sunk cost fallacy and it's really
hard not to fall into sunk cost fallacy
cuz like you've invested so many
resources, you just want to make the
thing that you've invested resources in
work, but you like
that's like the number one trap
a founder can have. Uh I think it's
incredibly important to like it just be
real with yourself and be like this does
not have the like logarithmic scale that
we needed to have, so it's time to
pivot.
>> that aren't familiar with Scale AI, what
was the company itself in terms of like
what was the problem it solved and what
was your primary role within the
company?
>> Yeah, so I would say uh the easiest way
to describe it is that we help label
data for other companies. So in a
self-driving car example, um companies
would give us like you know their
images, their lidar data, etc. And then
we would tell them like what's a stop
sign, what's a pedestrian, what's a car
on the road. Um and we did this for like
all different sorts of tasks. Um and
then my role, initially I had um built
out like some of the API and then I was
on product and I helped build out the
operations team, so um basically created
this like automated process um to hire
the labelers and then um
literally hired all our labelers and
trained them and helped scale that
process.
>> You started to work with some of the
biggest companies in the world. They
came to you that were clients of yours.
How did you go about that client
acquisition and what was that process
like early on?
>> Yeah, it was quite literally um so early
early on we cuz YC has so many large
companies, we scraped YC internal
database, which you're not supposed to
do, but we did. And then we literally
just blasted every single founder and
we're like, "Hey, we're also YC company.
We have this API for humans. Like, what
do you need it for?" And then we were
able to get some of our first large
customers that way. And then it was
really just conferences. So I would
print out flyers and just leave them on
the floor, on the table, etc. Basically
pitching like, "Hey, we're going to be
able to label your data cheaper than
everyone else." So then people would
actually contact us. We also obviously
use LinkedIn and we'd figure out like
who is like you know the VP of
engineering, the CTO, maybe a head
engineer that could ask the VP and or
CTO for budget to label data. And then
we would manually label all the data
ourselves to start. So we did a pilot.
It'd be like, you know, a boardroom
where we gather everyone and we're like,
"Okay, we're going to label data, give
them perfect pilot, and then they're
going to sign a larger contract. And
then we're going to scale with them."
>> Yeah. And then you know, you had
mentioned right there, it seems like you
had a moment. I remember, you know, when
we interviewed Sara Blakely, the founder
of Spanx, and one of the things that she
did early on, she talks about how, you
know, when she was working at Neiman
Marcus, she was trying to get her
product into the store, she would go out
and buy bins from Office Office Depot
and stick all of her products in the
like at the cash registers of all the
different sections of the store. She
wasn't supposed to do that. So it seems
like you kind of had that moment when
you scraped the the Y you know, Y
Combinator database where it's like you
weren't going to ask for permission. If
anything, you're going to ask for
forgiveness.
>> Yep. I think too many people ask for
permission. And yeah, I
If there are a lot of companies that
would not exist if you asked for
permission. Like Uber is one example,
right? Where like they broke all the
laws, but they didn't ask for
permission. And now they would become so
ingrained in society that they kind of
just had to exist.
>> So powerful, right there. I love that.
She said that there's a lot of companies
that would not exist if they asked for
permission. It's so true.
>> I don't know. I didn't actually realize
this, and I don't want to be wrong, so
cut this out of the podcast if it's not
true, but someone had told me that
Stripe even was one of those companies
that like they didn't There was
something that they did where they
didn't ask for permission, and that like
later on they just like figured it out
with regulation.
>> I feel like when, you know, people
always like to talk about, let's say
like the gold rush back in the day in
like the 1800s where, you know,
everybody was always there moving out
west to like strike for gold. Uh and and
we kind of see something similar in the
this event today with AI. Um but always
like to say like who got rich during the
gold rush? It wasn't all the people
going out west looking for gold. It was
the It was the people selling the
shovels to go out there. And I always
feel like with your company, like you
guys found a way for you guys to do that
as well and where you guys were actually
labeling data for other AI companies.
For you, when you found that that was
the vehicle that you guys were That was
the problem that you guys were going to
solve, how did you guys like go about
like
How did you know that that was it and
like go about scaling for your company
when you figured out that, hey, this is
the right product market fit for
uh Scale AI?
>> I would say that when we got our first
self-driving car customers scaling and
we realized that every single automobile
company um needed data labeling and
we're like, okay, every automobile
company is very well funded. Every AI
company is very well funded and the
number one thing that every AI company
needs, especially automobile companies,
is data because they need to make sure
like automobiles companies especially
because people can't die on the road.
So, um we realized how much money there
is to be spent, so we doubled down on
this. And honestly, like pro tip to
everyone here, um like one thing I've
noticed in like today's age, if you want
to invest in the public markets, is like
you should also invest in like I want to
say the picks and shovels, but like, you
know, the infrastructure for all AI
companies exist. Like I'm making a lot
of money on the video like chips. Like
pretty much everything that powers AI
because everyone's building the AI
company. So, even though not every AI
company will succeed, everyone's using
resources.
>> I feel like there's probably a ton of
startup founders that are watching this
uh and are inspired by your story. For
them, like they might be thinking, okay,
should I apply to a Y Combinator and
things like that. What would your advice
be for those founders as far as just
like, hey, like should I apply to like a
startup incubator and even something
like Y Combinator, like how we should
they go about doing that and what advice
would you have for them?
>> Yes, I think with Y Combinator, I would
suggest every single like B2B SaaS
founder to apply to Y Combinator. The
reason being that Y Combinator opens you
up to thousands of customers
immediately. And there's just a like
mutual camaraderie with YC founders
where it's like if you're a YC founder,
I'll talk to you, right? Because we just
support the community and we give back.
So,
it's a no-brainer for B2B SaaS founders.
I think if you're like a consumer
founder or you know, like let's say your
customer isn't SaaS companies, um
it just becomes a question of like what
you want. Like do you want that
community? Do you want that mentorship?
Or do you want to save your equity and
raise it a higher valuation?
>> We were talking earlier, you know, I was
asking you a bit about your superpowers
in the business world and what were some
of the things that you are very good at.
And you mentioned two things to me. You
talked about how important it is to be
like great at sales, selling in the
company. But you talked about talent
detection, which you know, we've come to
learn is one of the most important
things to build any business. You know,
from talking to people like yourself and
just so many other successful
entrepreneurs, we've got up to how many
60 or 70 employees now across our
different businesses that we have. Did
you have a
like like a method for finding and
attracting the right talent to come and
work with your company? Cuz you
mentioned especially in tech, if
somebody's extremely talented, you've
got other companies coming to try and
poach them with these big multi-million
dollar offers. What was your strategy
for not only attracting the right
talent, but then also retaining it over
time?
>> I think this goes back to really
building a network, especially when
you're younger. So, the initial talent
that we attracted literally came from my
college. Like I hit up the smartest
engineers I knew at Carnegie Mellon,
which thankfully was like the number one
CS program. And they all decided like
yeah, like we'll come work with you. Um
to the point where like some of them
didn't ask for how much their equity was
worth, which was very confusing to me.
Um they were just like yeah, like
startup, you're building one, I'll come.
Um which was cool and that was because
of that like emotional connection that I
had built with them over college. Um I
would say outside of that, um I like
seeing people that take action on their
own. So for example, like people that
attend hackathons, um they're great
because they're not just sitting in
college doing the bare minimum, you
know, completing their classes, etc.
Like they're going out and finding
competitions to do. Like they're
learning how to like take the
theoretical knowledge they learn from
college and apply apply it practically.
Um so I really like hackathon kids as
well. Um I think that competitive people
in general are very successful at
company building. So um this can be
anything from, you know, like um math
competitions to being an athlete uh
because it requires a level of
discipline um and hard work that uh
exceeds, I think, the average person.
>> Was there a mistake that you made early
on that shaped how you built the rest of
the company? Maybe it was a a contract
going wrong or you lost data. Was there
a mistake you made early on that shaped
how you built the rest of the company?
>> I mean, we've definitely had issues with
data that we've gotten in where we
almost lost contracts, but and I think
that was always going to happen, but I
think one thing we very quickly learned
is um everything is emotional retention.
So we literally sent champagne and a
cake and everything was all good. And
from then on, I really learned like how
much um sales and retention is all
emotional connectivity.
>> And how what kind of taught you that?
Like like how did you understand the
psychology of like the people that you
were dealing with?
>> I was pretty early on, I think. Um like
when I was trying to convince, you know,
people to choose us over several
different offers,
um
I would have to talk to them every
single day and I realized that like, you
know, our offer wasn't as high. So I
would have to really sell them. Um it
got to the point where they got I was
doing various boot camp with them. I was
like buying Pikachu presents for them.
Um I think we also got taught this by
our investors, though. Like they were
telling us the Stripe founders would um
take people on plane rides or like go on
jogs with them. Um plane rides is a
really cool way to pitch someone, I
guess. Um, and then, um, that was the
way that they managed to convince people
to work with them. Um, so I'm
mix of like intuition and mix of just
like seeing what other founders have
done, which is also why it's so
important to be surrounded with smart
people because, um, when you're around
people that have done it before, they
can tell you like what worked and what
didn't.
>> It was this last year, I believe, that
you guys ended up selling 49% of the
company.
>> Mhm.
>> And how much did you sell the company
for?
>> It was like 26 billion or so, um, for
49%. But like at a 49% at 26 billion
dollar valuation.
>> You are now building a new company right
now.
>> Yeah, I'm actually building a few new
companies.
>> Can you tell us about some of the
companies that you're building right
now?
>> Yeah, so, um, one of them we're working
on infrastructure for the creator
economy, so helping creators monetize
their brand, um, but we're also spinning
it off into a fintech app, um, because
we realized that 80% of the money is
through messaging, but we're also seeing
a lot of problems in other industries,
um, such as service industries or like
with psychics, etc. Um, so we wanted to
make the UX a little bit easier, um, and
broaden our TAM. Um, another company I'm
working on is, uh, an AI growth startup.
I can't really speak more specifics to
it, but it is going to be very fun. I
think just like agentic tools that help
you grow your company.
Um, and then I am working on, um, an
apparel company, but I can't speak more
to that. Um, there will probably be
announcements sometime this summer. Um,
that one I'm just excited about cuz I'm
working on it with like two very close
friends.
>> What is your relationship right now with
diversification? Like I would imagine
when you were building, you know, Scale,
it was all 100% into that business, but
then after kind of selling part of the
company, now moving on to some other
ventures now. How do you feel about
diversification rather than just
focusing on one venture, maybe?
>> I think in general, you should focus on
one venture, but the nice thing is I do
have flexibility now. So, for example,
with the apparel company, I hired a CEO
in, so I don't have to be day-to-day
with it and focus too much on it. Um,
and for these other companies, um, I am
doing something very similar, I'd say,
where like I'm going to be very involved
in the beginning, but then if I can find
leadership to
like place into these companies, um I
will. Um I think that like
I kind of doing an Elon Musk approach
there, I'd say.
>> So, do you believe the best way to build
companies is from top-down with top-down
leadership? Or do you cuz I feel like
especially new entrepreneurs, they kind
of place I will call it like warm bodies
to kind of just serve a specific
function within the uh organization. But
it sounds like when you're approaching
these new companies that you're starting
to build, you're going to start out by
building the leadership that can then
kind of fill the
>> I hire leaders, I hire ICs. Um because I
don't believe in hiring a leader at or
manager and having to blow up teams. So,
everyone I look for can do the entire
function themselves and I also think
that they hire better and are able to
actually teach the future employees or
like the future team how to actually do
the function. Cuz it's very hard to be
able to like determine whether your like
um direct reports are doing a good job
if you're not actually doing the job
yourself. For example, like let's say
you're a customer support lead. Um how
do you actually know that your customer
support team is answering tickets on
time, answering them well, etc. unless
you know how to answer your tickets? Um
like if you know how to answer tickets,
you might be like, "Oh, this one should
have been answered in 30 seconds. Why
did it take 3 hours to answer and why
did you give it the wrong answer?" So,
um I hire leaders into companies, but
they're all ICs that wouldn't need to
hire a team to do the function.
>> So, obviously one of the companies that
you're building right now is to help
creators monetize. For you, like what do
you see as like the next big opportunity
for creators especially with the
platform that you're building?
>> Yeah, so I would say that at the moment,
um creators haven't really had tech
built for them. Um and I think the next
opportunity cuz creators are really good
at creating content, but they don't want
to do everything else is probably
agentic tools and AI tools to help them
do literally everything else. Um from
like AB testing like what times to post
so like captions that are going to
convert the best, Titles like
translating videos so like more of your
audience can see it versus just like you
know the US population for example. Um
so I'm excited about that for creators
and I also think that um at the moment
from what I've understood at least like
creators are very
Creators aren't well versed in um fit
I'm going to repeat that. Like creators
aren't that well versed when it comes to
um like actually managing their money.
Um so I think fintech is actually really
big opportunity within the creator
economy as well. Especially when you're
seeing um like creators with large teams
be able to really do this well, right?
Like creators with incredibly large
teams are able to hire people in to like
help them choose the best angel
investments to um proceed in or like
help them incubate a company or help
them partner with the right company
where they're getting like co-founder
level equity. Um we're seeing this
really with you know like Alex Earl just
started her skin care line. Jake Paul
did W. Logan Paul did Prime. Um and this
is really how creators I think it build
um generational wealth. Um so I think
that there is an opportunity there as
well.
>> I love that. And you know, we were
chatting about it earlier as well,
right? You know, AI is the business that
you ultimately built your fortune,
right? And are still continuing to crush
it. And but for the people out there,
right? That they think of AI is like a
buzzword and they're not necessarily
utilizing it or using it on a daily
basis. What are a couple actionable
steps that you think all business
owners, whether it be tools or
applications of AI that you think
everybody should be using that are
non-negotiables in their day-to-day
lives?
>> Yeah, so I would say that um everyone
should be messing around with Replit, um
Cursor, Quad Code, etc. because right
now is like really the first time that
you could build full-scale applications
and bring your ideas to life without
actually knowing any code. Um and I
think that that's really democratized
being able to build companies,
especially tech companies cuz obviously
there's tons of companies you can build
that don't require technology. Um but
tech companies scale better than other
companies because like all you really
have is server costs. Um and now
everyone can be a 10X engineer because
of all these tools.
>> Yeah, I'm going to add one more tool in
there, though. Are you Do you know Opus
Clip? Have you heard about them? So,
they just recently launched, I think
it's called like Agent Opus, I believe,
and, uh, we've been using it where
essentially you can have like a script
or even just audio, and it will turn it
into a short-form video that's like
already ready to post.
>> That's amazing.
>> All right, guys, we're going to be right
back to the episode, but before that,
listen, one thing that I have learned
after talking to so many entrepreneurs
is this. Best ideas that you will have,
they usually come from conversations
just like these or meetings that you
have with business partners or people
that you're doing business with, but the
problem is most people forget them. And
that is exactly why, like I was just
talking about, I've been using something
new from Opus Clip, and it is called
Agent Opus, and it is honestly one of
the most useful AI tools that I've ever
seen for content. You can take a simple
script or even audio from a conversation
just like this. It turns it into a
legitimate video that is actually ready
to post and promote your brand or your
business. And what I like the most about
it, is like I was saying, guys, it
doesn't feel like your generic
AI-generated content that people cannot
stand and they scroll the minute that
they see it. It feels like legitimate
content. Everything in the content
actually matches, the visuals, the
message, the pacing. It feels like real
content that you would actually watch.
Now, here's where it gets even better.
Okay, instead of having some massive
team that you think you needed to create
this content, you can turn it into one
clear idea that you're ready to publish
and post right away. So, if you want to
try it out today, check out Agent Opus
by going down to the link in the
description of this video and watch your
business change. But, yeah. So, and and
then in terms of just from like an
efficiency standpoint, though, like
you're leveraging all those tools in
your business is probably saves you how
much time on average, would you say?
>> I I would say everyone's a 10X engineer
now. Everyone's a 10X employee. Um,
honestly, like this is very
questionable, but I've been using Claude
to draft like all my contracts, so I'm
saving a lot in legal costs, too.
>> Claude? Claude is the biggest
game-changer. Do Do you Do you see law?
We call it the crib law. That's where we
got That's where we got our JD from G
From GPT law.
>> Although, I'm getting really annoyed
with all these AI lawyers cuz um, today
we uh, just got sued actually for using
metapixel. And we looked at the guy that
sued us and he's just using an AI lawyer
and he sued like dozens of companies for
ridiculous stuff in hopes of quick
settlement. And I'm like, everyone uses
metapixel. Like how did we just get sued
for using metapixel? What the hell?
>> It's insane. And I just think it's
hilarious the fact of like DC like So
there there's a meme inside the company
called DC laws and the crypt law and
it's because with AI like you you don't
necessarily need an entry-level like
lawyer to basically like, you know,
resolve problems or, you know, answer uh
like pretty much sort through like all
of the legalese. And one of the things I
was kind of curious about for you is
with now being easier than ever to vibe
code and just, you know, create apps and
and applications
uh
what's the biggest differentiator now?
Is it distribution? Is it brand? Because
if anyone can kind of create a
competitor to another tech product or
software easily now without even knowing
how to code, what's the what's going to
be the separation between those
companies?
>> Well, I mean, you need to be able to
move fast. I don't actually think vibe
coding is going to help you like create
good competitors. Like you're still
going to want to hire the best engineers
because vibe coding has a lot of issues
to it as well. I think it's great at
creating MVPs and lifestyle businesses
because if the product has like tech
problems, that's fine if you're making
like a few hundred thousand a month
even. But it's not going to scale to
like billions of users.
I think that differentiation right now
though is just like the like intuition
on like product market fit because right
now like if you were an ideas guy
before, it was impossible to raise
funding. But now as an ideas guy, you
have a good idea, you're going to be
able to vibe code it out and you're
going to show investors. And then you
can raise less funding than before to be
able to build large companies because
you don't need to hire as many engineers
because every engineer can be a 10X
engineer. So um would say if you're able
to have good ideas and you're able to
convince good engineers to work for you,
um huge differentiator.
>> Lucy, when when me and you first met, we
were at a Kanye West concert. And uh the
reason why I'm bringing this up is
because I want to get your perspective
on work-life balance and whether or not
it has changed after becoming a
billionaire. When you were initially
building your company, did you have
work-life balance in those early days?
Like was there always a part of you that
was like, "I'm going to have some of my
time dedicated to this to not even
focusing on the business" or what
ultimately was that like and how was
your perspective of work-life balance
changed, especially after achieving the
status that you're in now?
>> I don't actually think it's changed. Um
I probably work almost the same amount.
I will say that like when I was building
out scale, um I was doing the 5:00 and
6:00 a.m. Barry's. So, I was waking up
at 4:00 a.m. Um cuz I lived a little bit
further from Barry's and I also
skateboarded there. Um but now I do the
6:00 and 7:00 a.m. Barry's every day,
which means I get to wake up at 5:30
because I have a car now.
So, um but no, I mean I I I would say
like I I I think work-life balance for
me, um and I literally like put this
through Claude and ChatGPT, but um I
basically uh I don't sleep that much.
Like I get around 5 hours of sleep a
day, but then um
Yeah.
I function really well. And then my
sleep efficiency score is always like
100% quality. So, I got kind of curious
and I'm like I was asking I was like, "I
perform really well at Barry's. My mind
feels great. Like what's wrong? Or like
am I getting enough sleep?" And they
basically spit out there like, "You're
not functioning at 100%, but you're
functioning at 85% and like your version
of normal is probably like still pretty
good, but you don't know what you could
be at like 100%. So, you should still
sleep more." But the point is I would
rather have 85% efficiency and have
those extra 3 hours to like hang out
with friends and have work-life balance
versus get 100% and like have no
work-life balance because I do think
that like being happy is so important to
like not burning out, for example. And
if I got 3 hours more sleep, but didn't
I got to see my friends, I think I'd be
a lot more miserable.
Yeah.
>> And you still even kept that even while
you were building scale as well?
>> Yeah. I mean I I I would say at scale I
was probably getting closer to like 4
hours cuz again I was waking up like an
hour earlier per day.
Um so
yeah, I I think that by being a
billionaire I guess like now I can have
security take me to Barry's and I have a
car, which is really nice, and I live
closer to Barry's. So I've been able to
get those like extra hours of sleep, but
um no, I'm still like like I literally
am at 6:00 7:00 a.m. Barry's every nice
though.
>> Have your relationships changed since
becoming a billionaire? Like has your
relationship with friends and just
family changed since you know you coming
into wealth?
>> Um I would say in general no. Um most of
my friends are actually like very
wealthy on their own or um they're just
like
like they've been old friends like
they've been there before everything has
happened, right? Um I would say with
like new people probably
um or like if I for example like meet a
new friend and I'm like, "Okay, let's go
on this trip yellow." Then I think that
friends that haven't been on like the PJ
with me get a little bit salty cuz
they're like, "We were your day ones.
Why aren't we on the PJ?" And I'm like,
"Well, the PJ left from like London to I
Visa and you weren't in London. So like
you're always invited." Um but it's
stuff like that that maybe feels like it
changed but I still like no, life is
pretty good. Um I think people treat me
nicer. Yeah. Um I think you get a lot
more free things when you're like a
billionaire. Um
which is great.
>> Did you ever envision this happening
especially like in the beginning when
you were first building your company?
Did you ever like was this the dream?
>> I would say that in order to be a
billionaire you have to have this like
relentless belief that you're going to
be one because you're going to be like
starting a company doesn't make sense.
Like at least starting a tech company.
Like you have a 99.9% chance of failure,
right? Like why would anyone do that? Um
and most people that have the ability to
do that they like have multi-million
dollar offers at other companies because
they're smart. So um I would say that
after dropping out and joining Thiel
Fellowship, it became the norm. Like if
I didn't become a billionaire, I was a
failure because everyone around me was
so intelligent and they were raising
tens of millions of dollars for the
companies and like obviously like we
knew a few billionaires.
Like
Like quite literally, it was very
obvious that everyone around me was
going to be a billionaire or was already
a billionaire. So, I knew that like like
that was like the bare minimum bar for
me.
>> I heard this actually in another podcast
and that in order to build great
companies and depending on the company
that in the size of company that you
want to build, it actually requires that
level of thinking and a capability
within their team. So, let's just say if
you want to build a
a seven-figure company, you need people
who if they wanted to go out on their
own, they would be capable of building a
six-figure maybe multiple six-figure
business on their own. But if you need
one to build an eight or a nine-figure
company, then you need multiple people
who are capable of building multiple
seven-figure multiple eight-figure
companies on their own. Maybe they just
don't have that same risk profile within
themselves or the desire to go out and
do it on their own. Would you agree with
that?
>> I would agree with that because who you
hire is what the company is and people
that have the ability to do that and
also have the risk tolerance to do that
are the types of people that are going
to work harder at your company.
Especially your early hires, like
they're Swiss Army knives, right? Like
you don't want the person that's like,
"Oh, this is not in my job description.
I'm not going to do that." Like we
literally had our engineers labeling
data. And you want people like that
because those are the types of people
that are going to help you build from
zero to one. And I would say that like
most of like most of our early hires,
they ended up, you know, going out to
build their own companies
because that's what they eventually
wanted to do. I wouldn't even argue it
was risk profile. I would just argue
like it was a good opportunity so they
decided to take it instead of building
their own company.
>> I think the best example of that was
like the PayPal Mafia back in the day
where it's like
literally all of them became
billionaires.
>> Yep, exactly. Yeah.
>> And you know, you were just talking
about how
for you with people that you were
surrounded by,
it was like
you had to become a billionaire per se
just because of that was what you were
around. When you think about in today's
world, especially with how important
proximity was for you, if you were
starting out, right? If we're talking to
that young entrepreneur out there, what
are some cities that you would instill
in them that it's like, "Hey, this is
probably a great spot for you for the
company that you're trying to build."
What are What are some of the maybe the
top three to five cities that you would
be in today's world?
>> I don't think there's three to five. I
think that San Francisco by far number
one and then New York.
>> All right. Why those two?
>> I think that those are where the
smartest entrepreneurs go and the
smartest people. Like if you look at
like every single Ivy League, you look
at Stanford, Berkeley, everyone ends up
in SF and New York. Um and you want
somewhere where there's a lot of talent
density and a lot of people that want to
be entrepreneurs. Um because
those are the people that like are also
going to have that relentless belief
that they're going to be billionaires.
Um and they're going to have that risk
profile cuz you're the average of the
people you hang out with, right? And
you're going to have a lot more of that.
Like if San Francisco, every single
person is trying to build a unicorn,
like you're going to feel incredibly
lazy if you're like, "I'm an engineer at
Google." And then you're going to feel
embarrassed every time someone asks
them, "What do you do?" And you're like,
"I'm an engineer at Google." Um and I
think public embarrassment is actually a
really great way to like push you to be
more ambitious. Um so, yeah. I I don't
think any other city really has that.
And like I say this like in LA even,
like I I don't think LA has that. Um I
am here mainly because we're in the
creator economy and there are a lot of
This is like creator central. But if I
were building any other company besides
a creator business, I wouldn't be here.
>> Where do you see the future of the
creator economy heading in the next 5 to
10 years maybe or 1 to 2 years per se?
>> Again, I think that um AI is really
going to take over when it comes to the
creator economy. I think that um right
now a lot of creators are against AI um
because they don't know like how their
data is going to be trained, but uh
selling their good likeness is probably
the future cuz it doesn't really make
sense for them to, you know, work with a
brand, fly out, create content, um and
then come back because that actually
costs a lot more money for a brand to
do. Um versus if they can just sell
their likeness, the brand can create the
perfect piece of content that they want
with the creator, and then they'll also
be able to scale their time, too, right?
Because they'll be able to work with
more and more brands. Um, obviously,
they can't dilute their brand, so don't
work with too many brands, but like
let's say you're working with every
luxury fashion house out there, right?
That's not going to dilute your brand.
You're just going to look even cooler.
Um, so I believe that that's the future
of the creator economy, but we haven't
really gotten there yet. Uh, and we need
like the first person to really become
incredibly rich from doing that before
it becomes mainstream. Kind of like when
the first person, I forget who was the
first creator that like like Kylie
Jenner's lipstick, maybe. And then
everyone was like, I want to build a
company, too, right? But before that, no
one would take equity. Everyone was
like, I just want money in cash.
>> to be sponsored by a big company.
>> I Someone I feel like actually recently
just did that is is KB Lame. He makes
like uh he doesn't talk on any of the uh
on an any of the content. He just makes
like kind of just entertainment-based
content. I believe he I don't remember.
Do you guys know how much he sold it
for? It's a lot of money.
>> Oh, I saw that. Yeah.
>> Yeah, a lot of money. And I mean I
That's where I was One of the things I
wanted to ask you is do you feel like
creators selling their likeness, which
you said that you do think it's going to
become more common, but do you think
like AI avatars and just AI-centric
creators, where it's not even a real
person, do you believe that's going to
become more normalized, or do you think
people are going to have a hard time
coming to kind of terms that that's not
a real person on the other side of the
screen?
>> I think it's a very, very different
market. Um, like for example, there's
apps like Replika, which is a romantic
partner that's AI, and the normal person
isn't going to talk to like Replika and
fall in love with Replika, right? But
there's a whole subset of people because
there's billions of people on this Earth
that do talk to Replika, and Replika
makes a lot of money. Um, and I think
that the majority of people are not
going to be uh
enamored by AI creators, but I think
there is a small subset that's enough of
a market that will be.
>> I think we saw that 13 years ago with
the movie Her.
>> Yeah.
>> the guy that was talking to like the AI
voice, yeah.
>> I wanted to just briefly touch on the
mindset that you had when you were
building this company, right? You know,
we were talking about it earlier that
among yourself and all the billionaires
that you know, like there's a certain
level of kind of crazy that they have to
be like that unwavering self-belief that
they have in themselves. Do you recall
back and maybe even in the earlier days
in the first couple years in the
building your company that like maybe
there were some low points in the
company, maybe you had a bad day or
maybe a mistake was made. What what was
your self-talk in that moment? Did you
always have a certain kind of motto or
or a certain level of self-talk that you
would kind of resort back to where it's
like we're going to persist through
this.
>> I don't think failure is an option. Like
I hate the idea of losing people money
um and disappointing people. Um maybe
it's like you know, the Asian parents
that I had, but I really don't like
disappointing people. Um maybe I'm a
people pleaser. Who knows? But um I just
like
I think I just thought to myself like
you have to get through this because you
can't disappoint anyone.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> And then the process of taking on
investors, was there any money that you
kind of turned away per se that you
didn't necessarily want them to kind of
come into the company? What was your I
guess thought process and how do you
what was your decision-making process
for capital that you brought in and then
decided not to?
>> Well, I mean we are oversubscribed, so I
would say that the thought process is
just like are you going to be value add
as um an investor? Um so for example,
like could your company be a customer?
Um or like are you going to help us hire
engineers? Like where is your value
going to be? I think that like value add
investors are the best and then you want
investors that um
are just going to leave you alone. But
the number one thing you don't want is
an investor that like wants to be really
really helpful and like be a little bit
too involved in the business because you
know that when things go south, they're
going to be really annoying and the best
thing you can do when things go south is
leave a founder alone unless they reach
out to you for help. Like you don't want
someone like hitting you up going like
how's the business doing? Like how can I
help? Like um you're doing this wrong,
etc. etc. because like you don't want
bad advice and most investors will give
bad advice.
>> It's a really interesting philosophy.
Yeah, did you experience that at all at
any point in time with people?
>> I have definitely regretted bringing
some people onto the cap table, which is
fine, but I've in general like like even
those people I like knew oh this is
probably bad idea, but I got guilt
tripped into it.
>> Well, Lucy we like to end these podcasts
off with two questions for our guest.
I'll start and then and then Jack will
end it off here. So, Lucy,
how old are you today?
>> I am 31 years old.
>> 31, became a billionaire this last year.
>> Yes.
>> If me and you died tomorrow and you had
one more message to leave with the
younger generation, what would that be?
>> I would say especially if you're in
college, go make friends with every
single person that you know. There is
literally no other time in your life
that you're going to
be surrounded by such intellectual
people that all need friends because you
know you're freshman in college let's
say no one has friends. Everyone wants
to make new friends. And these people
are going to be your future hires, your
future investors, your future
co-founders.
And if you miss out on that it gets a
lot harder as people start building new
friend groups and new lives after they
graduate. And if you have graduated,
just try to stay close to the people
that you did meet in college because
there's a level of
like emotional there's a lot of
emotional bond that you guys have that
can't be replicated. And that is
probably like if you stay close to them,
they're still going to end up being your
future hires and your future
co-founders. But once you lose touch
like you lose your college network. And
when you lose your college network, it
really does become a lot harder.
>> I'll just say this, that's one of my
favorite closing answers I think we've
ever received because I even look at
when I have kids one day, it's I I don't
want to send my kids to college be like
solely for the education. Of course I'd
want them to go to the a good school if
they want to go to college, but it's not
about the education itself, it's about
who you meet.
>> Yeah, I don't think any single person in
college is like wow I used everything I
learned in college in my job. Like I
don't think not one single person
especially like in engineering like when
you study computer science, all you
learn is theoretical stuff.
>> Absolutely.
>> And it's exactly.
>> And Lucy, for you know everything you've
accomplished looking back at your
legacy, how do you want to be
remembered?
>> Honestly, just a nice friendly person.
Like, that's super happy all the time,
which I'm glad I actually had that
reputation. So, yay.
>> Well, Lucy, this was an excellent
podcast. Thank you so much for being on
and the incredible advice you dropped
