Most traders are asking AI the wrong
questions. They're asking it what stock to buy. Better question is, can you do
hundreds of hours of research for today? We're talking with a 20-year veteran
systematic trading about how he's using Claude to build and test trading
strategies in a fraction of the time and why that changes what one trader can
accomplish. Welcome to episode 20 of the trading floor podcast. Our guest today a
systematic day trader since 2005 currently trading 30 plus proprietary
strategies every day. His name is Dave maybe founder of maybe
kit the number one strategy optimizer and automation tool for systematic
traders host of line your own pocket podcast former CTO of trade ideas and
he's on a mission to turn 10,000 hobbyist into full-time traders doing it
for a living. Dave, thank you for joining us. This is the second time.
We're so psyched to have you on again. >> Yeah, thanks so much for having me. I'm
excited to be here. >> So Dave
as many know who have been in the bionic meetings where Dave has joined us and
I've introduced Dave Dave is a mentor to Tim and I when it
comes to everything automation and everything strategy optimization. And so
when Dave when you told me that you wanted to
come on and talk about how you're using Claude automate backtesting and strategy
development. I got really excited because Tim and I haven't done this yet.
So what drove you down this path? >> Yeah, so I've got four bullet points
that you know, I've been listening to your podcast. You guys have been doing a
great job with this and so to inspire me to to think about this.
Um, you know, I've always
I've always automated stuff like if from the career I had before trading
Uh, I was all about automating stuff and it's just the next iteration of, you
know, uh, from automating strategies now to
trying to automate as much as I can of doing backtesting.
So, I'm it's it's you know, when I when I first started
using Claude code about 8 months ago, it was
a trader friend of mine said, "Dave, you should really start using this." I was
like, "Well, I mean, I'm using ChatGPT. I mean, what's what's really the big
difference?" But man, once I started using it, I was
like, "Oh my gosh, this is really great."
So, it really opened up a whole new world,
but you know, one thing that I think about,
you know, from my CTO days, just because Claude can do all these
things for you, it doesn't mean the rules of software development have
changed. Like, there's still basic rules that
people have to follow and and and it's good practices to follow.
So, there's lots of things that there there's
there's lots of ways that you can get into a trap if you're not careful. And
and I've just known this from being a software developer for so many years.
Uh, so yeah, it's an exciting time to be a trader, it's exciting time to be a
developer. Um,
but yeah, there's there's certain guardrails you need to impose on
yourself with this this amazing tool. >> I 100% agree and I feel like not a lot
of people are talking about those traps in general. But I'm excited to get into
these bullet points as well. >> Uh, first bullet point here, the first
step you could do to automate the backtesting and systematic trading that
you're doing is have give Claude the path to be able to
run a backtest on your behalf. So, may maybe you've already got a
backtest and
give it the tools to actually run it without intervention. You can say,
"Okay, just go run the back test." And that means like the tool I use is
AmiBroker. So, that means run the back test,
save the CSV results to the standard place,
and not all back testing tools allow you to
do this. So, you can't even use Claude code to run
back tests in most back testing software out there. So, the only ones I know, in
fact, I think you can't do it in TradeIdeas.
The only ones that can do it, I believe, are AmiBroker and RealTest.
Uh and Kite, the tool that you guys have access to, but retail traders don't have
access to that tool. >> That makes a lot of sense. I wasn't sure
when you were coming on uh with back testing with Claude if it was going to
be that you gave Claude like a ton, like an entire CSV of all minute bar data for
a ton of stocks, and then it was able to like do some sort of its own makeshift
back testing, or if it was this link. So, you're linking it with AmiBroker.
Would you like to gain the biggest edge a retail trader can get? All of our
daily and weekly in-house trader meetings are now available to you. Just
head over to smbtrainingfloor.com to find out more.
>> A lot of traders come to me and have tried the route of having Claude do
everything. And it's tempting to do that. I
I totally get the draw of doing that, but it's sort of like
it's sort of like wanting to use a spreadsheet and then like building your
own Excel and not just using Excel. I mean, why would you want to do that?
Well, Claude could build you an Excel, right?
>> Yeah. >> But that's No, it makes no sense to do
that. And that's the trap I see a lot of
traders fall into. They think they can do it all with Claude.
And there's just AmiBroker's been around for like 30 years now, if you can
believe me, a long time. And it's the most efficient way to do this
for the retail trader. And there you know, there's just been so
many lessons learned. The same developer the whole time, same interface the whole
time. And you know, you're going to some
people look at the interface was like, man, this looks like it's from
30 years ago. So, well, yeah, it is. So, that's a good thing.
>> And for you, how easy was linking it? Um, is that something that you even ask
Claude on how to do it? Or like, how would you go about that?
>> So, there is So, AmiBroker has an interface, a standard interface that
Windows had and has had in there for years of
like automating software. So, it's a standard interface for
basically performing the functions in AmiBroker
outside of AmiBroker via a Python script. There's a really good example
this that I have on my mailing list. We can put a link in the show notes to it.
Um, it's standard Python code for doing [clears throat] this exact function.
So, it's and you know, this has been in AmiBroker for
years, but and I've used it for years just, you know, writing my own Python
scripts to you know, run back test for certain
things. But now it's just, okay,
it's unlocked to non-developers via Claude. So, you can have teach Claude
how to do it. And the next few bullet points I'll talk
about is specific things you can teach Claude to
do to actually help you develop a strategy. So, that's what that's what I
want to talk about next. >> That's great. So, step one, link it.
And start back testing. >> Yeah, so most traders probably already
have a back test that they're using or they're close to having one.
Um, and that's sort of the first or they can come up with one, you know, a
sort of a stock one pretty quickly. Uh, just to get that function working.
So, what one example, I mean, one of the things this unlocks is
you know, a lot of these back tests can take, you
know, an hour to run. So, you're you're you're
you know, you've written some code, you're you think it's right, you you run
the back test, it takes an hour, then you get your results. Well,
yeah, that's not immediate, so you know, you're out of the context, you
go off doing something else waiting for it to finish.
So, it's sort of an inefficient thing. So, a lot of traders that I work with I
show them this workflow and then they can run four or five back tests
overnight and then then it's there waiting for them when they wake up.
>> Is that because they're queued one after another?
>> Do you want to sit in on all of our daily and weekly in-house trader
meetings? There's no bigger edge retail traders can get. Visit
smbtradingfloor.com to learn more.
>> Yeah, so there's a way to parameterize certain things in a back test
let's say you want to run different versions of a back test and you've
created parameters in there that, you know, do slightly
different versions of it and you're trying to figure out which one's best.
You can have it run each iteration of those parameters and then you have, you
know, however many back tests waiting for you when you wake up based on that.
So, it's a much more efficient workflow than, you know, clicking the button,
trying to remember to come back and see when it's complete, then manually saving
the results to a CSV file and, you know, maybe doing that in a
non-standard way. If you standardize a lot of this, it becomes a lot easier and
your whole workflow for coming up with strategies
gets a lot easier. >> There would be certain models when we
were looking to backtest, we just knew the backtest would take so long where we
would try to get everything done by Friday so you can put it in over the
weekend. And the overnight is I mean that's a
small Chico but it's like it's an easy fix but such a massive difference like
>> Yeah. >> It's like four to five x probably the
amount you're able to backtest. >> Yeah and I mean it takes a little bit of
planning but once you get this workflow going to see what's possible then you
start thinking okay if I can do it this way then I can set up parameters for
this and you know have this running while I sleep
and I can wake up and you know optimize the strategy in the morning.
>> What a time saver. Yeah what what a what an amazing time saver. All right so so
how are you leveraging this? Is are we on the step two now?
>> So >> [clears throat]
>> that's sort of the basic step.
Um step two I want to talk about
how to actually create a strategy have Claude and I'm using Claude you know
you can use chat GPT in the same way or Codex.
Um have Claude create a strategy for you.
So you give it the parameters, you give it
the outline okay this is what the strategy is supposed to do
and then it come it writes the code for you for the actual backtest.
And the the most important thing to do here cuz
I've seen a lot of traders try this especially with Amibroker
there's there's lots of different ways to write
a strategy and
if you don't streamline it or
give Claude a reference of a good you know this is the way I I'm
talking about when I say come up with a strategy write it in this way
it it kind of gets lost and it'll come back
with many different ways. Like it could be any number of different ways. And
it's more expensive those requests, you know, it's going to cost more tokens
for you to do that. So, if you give it a reference, if you say, "Okay, here's a
strategy that I've created. Use this as a reference and but do this
instead." That's going to be a huge time saver and
it's going to you know, this comes from
my day, you know, many years being a CTO.
A a big part of when I was at TradeOut is
when I became CTO, a big thing I could see was like everybody was writing code
in silos. There was no standardization.
Uh you would look at somebody else's code and you were like, "Oh my gosh,
this is this looks so foreign to what I do. This
is not conforming to a standard." So, a big part of it was coming up with
a style guide and really enforcing it, saying that any new code that we submit
is going to be in this standard and it's going to be in the standard of the
language that we're writing in. So, and that just becomes it it smooths
things out. It's a little it takes a little bit of effort, you know, some
people think it's like busy work, but it was a huge thing because it just every
everything gets more cohesive and and gets easier.
>> Is it enough to just give it the example uh script, the Python script, or are you
really like telling the methodology of how you're writing it before?
>> All right. So, in Amber Broker, there's like I said,
lots of different ways to come up with a strategy.
But I have used so many different ways and I've
finalized on what I think is the right way to do it because there's one there's
only one way to do it where you can add custom columns to your backtest, which
is such an important part of I mean you know
preaching to the choir here, but it's such an important part of coming up
with a strategy that it's
it's almost impossible to come up with a strategy without doing that.
>> 100% >> And
and there's you know most traders don't realize so
I mean I've
created an AFL generator that does it in the right way.
And and it uses Claude on the back end. This
comes with Maybank and I've heard from traders that have
used it like they were trying to get Claude to write AFL before.
Once they started using this as a reference
Claude became much much better at writing AFL because it's using it you
know it's doing it the right way. It knows what you're it knows the context
with which you're asking it to do. So it's
giving it a reference is is just super important.
>> I've noticed that even with writing alerts
like I've used the first like project that I took on with Claude was
just trying to script up a bunch of these alerts that I had on a to-do list
that I never got to and I gave it one of my alerts
the scripts for it and that helped a ton.
But I haven't done on the model side. >> It's going to be I mean that is a very
important thing to have it do. Like you want to I mean every have you ever
looked at somebody else's code that you didn't write?
>> It's it's kind of jarring when it's not you
know it's written a little bit differently they do things differently.
But imagine you know if both people are writing with the same style and the same
Like you may you may think well this is Claude writing the code. Does it really
matter? Well yeah I mean it does matter and and it does make it
more efficient. So if you give it
uh you know
the the strategies that you run, here's how I write them.
It's going to be a lot more efficient because it knows what to do. It doesn't
doesn't have to guess. >> Jared, you'll remember too when we were
working with Nick, this is when we were like just starting out coding.
Um Nick would look at our code and be like, "What is this?"
>> [laughter] >> Like
>> And you're putting in nice like >> read this at all.
>> Yeah, and you're you're you're making this PG for the for the
>> Oh, he would yeah, he would >> [laughter]
>> kind of get a little mad at us. >> I mean, that's how we learned how to
code though. He'd be like, "Oh, this is garbage." And he'd be like
>> To your point him uh that's really how we learned how to
code because Nick was so hard on us when we would just write spaghetti code.
And we'd ask him, "Hey, uh
this thing is not like working, you know, can you just cuz we knew he knew
everything. Can you just look at this and you know, kind of tell us what to
do?" And he'd be like "Just put in print statements." And he'd
just yell at us to like he'd be like, "This is what I would be doing, so you
guys should just do it." And it was great. That's how we learned how
to do it, you know, and it's just it's funny and now I guess you don't need to
know how to do any of this, but the thing Dave that
that I'm kind of getting out of what you're saying is that it still does pay
off to kind of have some level of understanding of like how this sort of
like back end like programming stuff works when you're doing this.
>> Oh, yeah, then no question about it. I mean, there So, there's this concept in
software development called technical debt.
And the way you should think about it is,
you know, junior developers, new developers might
write code. And you might have a senior person like Nick look at it and say
"You know, this needs to be better." And the developer might say, "Well, it works
right here. It's doing what it's supposed to do."
But the senior developer might look at it and say, "Yeah, okay, it works, but I
can tell from my experience that eventually
this is going to be a a big pain to maintain. It's written in
a non-standard way. You could write this in a lot fewer lines. You could You
could make that You've done it like in a very convoluted way.
And it's it's good to uh
It's good to sort of respect and understand where that senior developer's
coming from because they've been through this and they see what can happen over
time as technical debt develops. So,
and it's uh I mean
I'm really interested to see how this whole Claude thing plays out because
there's so many people now who think they're developers, right? And really a
lot of what I can see a lot of people doing
is creating technical debt very quickly and they have no idea that they're doing
it. So, it's just I'm very curious to see
how it plays out. Yeah, Claude can help with that if you
know what you're doing, but it's still like people ask like people take on
bigger projects than they should. It's It's just I'm very
curious as as a long-time software developer to see
how this plays out. >> I'm probably guilty of that as well. Not
to deviate too much, but I wonder there has to be a way of trying [snorts] to
get Claude to continually review, like almost debug for technical debt.
>> Yeah, there is no question that you can set that up.
Um so
you know, I coach a lot of traders who want to get into systematic trading.
The very first thing that we focus on or one of the first things is how to use
GitHub well. Um
I see so many traders I I haven't seen a trader yet that uses GitHub the right
way. And it may not be a big deal in the you
know, when they get started, but once you start putting code into production,
you know, once you have a strategy live, and you go to start making changes to
it, if you don't have good version control practices, if you don't
have good uh
practices for using GitHub in its sort of a standard way, you're going to get
yourself into a problem. I can guarantee it. It may not be today, it may not be
tomorrow, it may not be next week, but you're going to get yourself into a
pickle if you don't have good software development practices.
And like I said, I haven't seen a trader yet
that uses GitHub the right way, and there's just a few
steps to a a few principles
to to really use it the right way and to set up your process so that you avoid
these pitfalls. >> What are those principles?
>> Um well,
using branches well in the way they're intended. So, there's what's called the
main branch. Most people are just committing to the
main branch. And the reason that's bad is
it's not like >> [clears throat]
>> the way you want to do it and when you create a change, like you you you get
your code into main, and now let's it's in production. Let's
say you've got a strategy running and it's making trades for you.
And now you want to make a change to it. Well,
you don't want to develop right in that main branch. You want to create another
branch, which is basically a copy of the main branch. It doesn't affect the main
branch. And you want to make your change, do all
your testing in there, do all your commits into that branch. It doesn't
affect the main branch in your production code.
You can do all your testing there, and then when you're ready to get it into
the main branch, you do a pull request. And the pull request is basically, all
right, I'm I've done all my testing. I'm comfortable with it getting into
production. And
that pull request is an important thing, and you can do code reviews there. You
can have You can have Claude do code reviews, which is
a a really nice thing for it to be able to do. You can have other team members
look at the code to make, you know, to double-check, and you should be doing
that. And then, once it gets into the main
branch, okay, it's live. It's It can go to production.
That step is such an important thing, but it because it encourages
the right use of of GitHub in a way that uh
uh you know, it it is going to get keep you
out of trouble. The other important thing is
people take, you know, uh
it it's good to do smaller bite-size projects.
Especially with Claude now and and new developers, I can see them like taking
on like doing adding more and more stuff when they really should think about,
okay, I want to do this first, and it should be a bite-size thing.
Create a branch for that, get it live, and then go and maybe create version two
of that. Having bite-size
pieces of work is going to be super important, and and
it it's a lot easier because the problem is people get
uh you know, create uh you know, try to do a project that's
really big and keep adding stuff, and they're committing it to the main
branch. They've got changes in the main branch that are separate from the new
project. It becomes a bear to to merge. So, if if you keep these
uh development hygiene principles in place, it makes your life so much
easier. >> It makes a ton of sense. And if you're
making too many changes and something goes wrong, you can't even pinpoint what
the change that messed everything up was.
>> Absolutely. >> Yeah, that's that's great.
>> where, you know, imagine you're you know, you're trying to get this new
project in and it's affecting some production code. You've broken some
production code by what you're doing. And you know, Monday's rolling around
and you and the strategy needs to run. I mean, that's that's the kind of
scenario that is a nightmare to have to deal with.
>> All right. So, you're to to bring it back to the strategy. So, you're you're
giving it a an example of a script that is in your style that's
that that it can use as a model to create this new script. So, is that
Does that mean that you're giving it the actual code for an existing script that
you have, like say in production? And then you're on the on the other hand,
you're giving it an idea, like a new idea, saying like, "Here's the criteria,
here are the variables. I want you to implement this strategy idea with in the
in the form of of this model script?" >> Yes, exactly. So, you know, it's
it could be a completely different concept, completely different strategy.
>> Right. >> But the the basic structure, the basic
uh uh
conventions, the way you make trades, the way you
uh the way you capture columns, um
everything about the sort of the style of the this the
strategy is in there and and it just gives it a much better
way to get started and and and to do the work.
>> Here's a mind-bending stat for you. SMB traders have 20x to 40x higher odds of
success than independent traders. Find out why and how to greatly increase
your odds by visiting smbtradingfloor.com.
>> I mean, you mentioned like the way the way it captures trades, the way it makes
trades, the way it executes. Like I'm thinking about our platform and just,
you know, the data, not only the collection of the data, but the
the algos, the actual algos that are taking the trades. Like there are
idiosyncratic things that you end up doing that are either maybe specific to
your platform's API or maybe specific to your
best practices, they might be risk checks, like things that you might not
even think about telling Cloud about the strategy that it would be good to teach
it. And, you know, for me, like now thinking about this, it's like there's
no way I don't think I don't think I could just give it
like a strategy idea and then have it kind of do what we do.
>> Yeah, I mean, just like how you do position sizing. What's the variable
name you use for position sizing? If you make all that consistent, your
life you know, your life becomes easier later on, like if you need to make a
change across all the strategies. You can search for one variable name because
you know you're been using that consistent variable name across all the
all the strategies. >> So, where do you go from there? Because
now you've got you've got an ability to basically like
automate the back test that you're going to run.
So, you can do different iterations. And then now you have the ability to
automate the the writing of these script ideas. So, you can easily create
different iterations. Um are you doing some
like master automation that sort of then like iterates through things and back
tests and you can just go sailing for the weekend?
>> Well, you you certainly can. I mean, once you get in this workflow, you can
and I do have back tests that run every day and and update the back test
automatically. So,
but the but there's still a couple more important things about
workflows I've set up to help it
do kind of the grunt work of like making sure the strategy is written
correctly and doing what it's supposed to do.
So, I'm going to go on to step three here.
>> Yeah. >> Which is give it away, give Claude away. So, I've
got a skill in there that basically allows it to run a smoke test. And what
I mean by this is when you run when you create a strategy
and then you run it across all market, like I said, it's going to take 40
minutes to an hour maybe to run. Well,
you don't need to run that whole back test to have it
to give it some feedback to see if it's working or not.
So, I have the smoke test where
I say, "Okay, only run a certain day or only
run on a certain symbol." So, I've I've set up a skill so it knows how to do
that. And so, it can run and that that takes
like less than a minute, like seconds to run
that. So, it's it can quickly run a back test
on a like on a specific symbol or specific day
and quickly get back results and then verify and see, "Okay, oh well, you
know, I often times it can do all this on its own." I would you know, I got no
results there. Let me see what's going on. Um
I I got a whole bunch of results. Obviously, something's wrong. So, you
you're And a lot of this is tedious kind of
grunt work that you need to do you would be doing on your own. But if you give
Claude tools to be able to do some of this on its own, this is the kind of
grunt work that it's really good at and can really
save a lot of effort and uh pain in creating a strategy.
>> So, the purpose of this is that you're trying to just see if it's doing what
you think it's doing before you like run it
full back test. >> Right.
>> Okay. And you're able to Are you able to kind of cuz you said you're creating
skills, like cloud skills. What are those? Are you able to kind of
automate the whole chain where it's like, "Okay, do the smoke test and then
like if it's kind of doing what it's supposed to be doing, then run the back
test." So, you don't really have to be there in
the middle. >> Yeah, so the
I want to bring it back to software development one more time to It's a bit
of an esoteric topic, but I think it's useful.
So, there's a concept in software development called unit testing. And
what that is is when you write a feature,
you can create what's called a unit test. And that's basically saying,
"Okay, this function needs to be you know, when you give it this
these parameters, it should come out with this result."
And each time you do a build in software, it'll run it can run all the
unit tests and make sure they pass. If they don't pass, something's wrong.
So, where that comes in handy is >> [clears throat]
>> if you got all your unit tests, you've been you've been writing this
building the software, and you want to add a new feature to it.
You add the new feature and you run the test to make sure this
feature didn't break anything. And you can verify that by seeing that did the
unit test pass? Often times you will break a former unit
test that you had no idea you were affecting.
And then that's an indication that, "Okay, that did something wrong."
Where if you didn't have that, you would that
code would get into production and you would a user would call you and say,
"Hey, something's wrong." So,
giving Claude a way to do that and to verify itself is extremely important.
And that's actually step four. Give it away, like similar to a unit
test, to verify its correctness.
And the way I do that with strategies is All right, let's say let's say I'm
creating an opening range breakout strategy.
I've I've given it the reference. One of the things I do is in the
description of what I want it to do is I tell it, "Okay, I know
that if you've written the strategy correctly, it should be matching, say,
Microsoft on this day. That trade should appear in the back
test. And
now, sort of like that unit test, you've given Claude a way to actually verify
that it's correct. So, it could go run a back test and
gosh, Microsoft didn't show up that day. I know I've done something wrong.
Um so, I've got skills for the smoke test.
There's also a way for it to pull market data more generally
for, say, Microsoft on a given day. So, it can actually go do some
troubleshooting and like tell me why Microsoft isn't appearing.
Or, you know, maybe something about the prompt is
you know, I didn't realize or you know, I just you know, wasn't precise enough
or you know, something about it can give me
some feedback about that and say, "Oh, well, it's not in there because this."
Like the candle so-and-so isn't is causing it not to be in the back
test. What do you want to do about it? >> That's specifically cool. I love how you
keep relating it back to software development though, because it's just
the opposite of live coding. It like you said the technical debt like just piles
up. This is the exact opposite. With real world like the analogies they make
perfect sense. It's doing the exact same thing and you're treating it just the
same as if you were a software developer.
>> Yeah, so it's and it is
and another fundamental thing that I
would do at Trade Ideas is so I would really
encourage the development staff to
think about work they could do to make somebody else
on the team better. So, a lot of times you have software
developers, you know, they're they're in their silos, they're doing they want to
do work on their own. But I really encourage people what can
you do to make somebody else on the team better? And that might be
write some code to and make it in a library so that other
people can use it to make their lives better. So now I
think the way I'm thinking about that the
analogy is what can you do to make your AI agent's life a little better?
And that's like giving it away to verify
itself. Giving it a um
a certain function that you know it's going to need to be
able to use over and over and like in a very efficient way to do it.
That's going to be it's going to make your whole workflow better. Like like
often times you'll like I'll have it I'll have called say you know, search
for something on my computer. Now if you just if you don't give it any
parameters, it's going to take forever to come back with and find something
on your computer, right? But if you say all right, look for a file it's going to
start with, you know, log. It's going to end with txt. It's going to be somewhere
here. You know, give it a folder. It's going
to find it really fast. So
it's kind of the same concept for having it do its work. When when you notice
it's taking a little bit longer than it
should to do something or it's doing that over and over and
over like step back and figure out, okay, how can
I make it go faster? And, you know, essentially, how can you make your AI
agent's life a little better? >> This makes it so much more efficient.
It's like this is genius because I mean to me this there's two things going on
here. There's probably two things going on
here cuz I'm an idiot, but like A, it's like you're outlining developer best
practices. And then B, you are basically then going
ahead and implementing that into the code so that those things are automated.
So like it sounds like these are things developers, like good developers, have
just been doing like for years. We need to make Claude do them.
Tim and I, I mean, we're just we're homegrown, you know, developers. Like we
figured this stuff out on our own. So we have some of our best practices and it's
all learned from like making mistakes, right? And like we've I can't tell you
how many times we've been sitting there coding
and it gets to the end of the day and we want to finish this model
and, you know, Tim is starting to press his foot on the gas. And it's like make
this change, make this change, and I'm like, Tim, like we might need to like
back test this or slow down. He's like, "No, no, no, we're good." And then
we back test it and like something's broken and now we just made 15 changes
and we have no idea what like what broke it, you know? So then we start to like
create rules like, okay, you know, let's um
if we make a big change, we need to like test it and and that sounds like, you
know, kind of like your unit test or you know, something something along
those lines. And it's like automate It sounds like you're finding ways to
automate these types of practices directly into Claude, which
is, you know, genius cuz I haven't done any of that. Like even as I
develop my trading assistant and my research tool,
um those are fairly big jobs. Like you kind of said it yourself. Like people
are taking on these big like all-encompassing jobs where like I have
no idea what's going on in the code. Like I'll ask Claude to like spit
back to me what is in the code base and like what's changed, but like ultimately
like I'm not reading it the same way that I would read a script.
You know, with Tim. And so I could probably be using some of these best
practices in my own projects. Like even if they
aren't um actual algo scripts. >> You bring up a good point because
some projects aren't super like mission critical, right? Some of them
aren't actually making trades. They're just nice-to-haves. Which those are
great. I mean, it's great that you've got I know I'll I'll listen to those
episodes. That that is such a cool thing that you're able to do.
A lot of these dashboards are really important for trading.
Um but it you know, if it was down
and you it was broken for some reason, is it actually mission critical compared
to something you know, strategies making
trades? That's a completely different thing. And it so it takes a different
bit of a bit of context and it's more important.
>> It's true, but like I guess what I'm thinking of as mission critical is time.
Cuz like that's what I'm hearing here. Like cuz all this stuff takes so much
time. And like you know, Tim like before AI came, Tim and I spent a lot of time
coding and learning and then doing it.
And it's you know, it takes hours. And like it still does. And now we can do
bigger and better things. So now we're spending, you know, hours on maybe more
grand projects, but we're still debugging and we're still doing all this
stuff. And it sounds to me like what you're doing is just saving
tons of time by implementing these things. Like and
so so to me like that that would be one reason to
to maybe like take take these best practices into like just the general use
of like any large project. >> Have you heard this study of tens of
millions of traders which shows that only 1% of retail traders actually make
it? Don't be a statistic. Visit
smbtradingfloor.com to greatly increase your odds.
>> Yeah, I think I I think some of the main takeaways
like if you if you only take away one thing from this
uh it's like give Claude as much context as you can
to actually do something. So there's this
I don't know if you've heard the term one shot. I've started hearing this this
term one shot that's coming out since uh uh you know
since Claude has come out and it basically means I was able to one shot
this thing which means I was able to come up with one prompt and Claude did
the whole thing with that one shot, right? And so that that's kind of what
you're trying to set up. And I realized this when I created the AFL generator
it uses Claude as the back end. So I and I did not when I created that
I didn't want to have a chat interface. I didn't want it
to you know have a back and forth. So I was like okay, how can I set up
the form and give it the prompt in such a way to actually give it an answer with
just one click. You know what what do I need to have? What what are the inputs
need to be for me to be able to be able to do that?
And I learned a lot doing that because I realized the more context you give it
the cheaper the requests were. So I have to pay you know that you're paying for
these requests that you send to Claude. And
the the more context you give it, the more specific
you are, the better off the the cheaper the request and the better the the
result is going to be. And
I was I have I have a really good example from
uh the Bionic webinar I did on I think it was in March where I
went over this. >> Mhm.
>> An example was like the more specific the better. I'm looking at this slide
right now. Like when you want to create a strategy,
this is a bad way to do it. I'm going to give you the prompt. Create a strategy
that trades opening range breakouts. Like that's not very specific, right? A
way better one is create a strategy that goes long opening range breakouts on the
10-minute time frame starting at 9:40 ending at 10:30 using a stop at the low
of the day and hold until 3:50 if the stop isn't
hit. It's a lot more context that you sort of
gloss over with that first request, but the more specific you get it you can
just tell like imagine if if I told you to tell me to come up with
that strategy, like you're going to have a lot more stuff to go on and there's
going to be a lot less back and forth with the more specific you're able to
make the request. >> Dave, if you just emailed me create an
opening range break strategy, I would say is this actually Dave?
>> [laughter] >> Also, one shot, that's going to be my
new favorite term. >> [laughter]
>> That's great. And I think another whole episode cuz I feel like I could just
keep asking questions about the skills, but that might even be a whole another
episode on all of the skills that you could build cuz the smoke test is one of
them, but I like I'm thinking about like potential like
I don't know, just the stuff that you care about live even too. Like you have
a skill that somehow takes your live trades and does slippage. And it's like
a slippage skill. Or like, we talked in the past about like what happens if your
model doesn't take a trade and like has a skill to deal with that. And all of
that we talked about in the last bionic. But, I feel like that's a whole 'nother
world, too. >> Yeah, I mean, similar to what we were
talking about earlier, you know, when you see a trade that you think
should should be in the strategy and your strategy didn't take it, it's often
a lot of debugging going on there to figure out why.
And if like I've got a skill that, you know, it's able to pull the market data.
So, I can quickly say, "Okay, hey, why didn't this show up in the strategy
today?" And it can quickly tell me exactly the bars, you know, exactly the
logic that would need to be in place for that to
have been caught. So, yeah, there's so much you can do here
to to uh
to really make your trading better in a way that
most, you know, most traders are they using Claude now and just, "Hey, give me
a strategy that works, right?" But, that's not how you're going to get the
most power out of it. You can say, "Okay,
help me make my trading better in this way. Here's this little process I do
that I know is a little bit tedious or I know can be
automated. Let's figure out a way to streamline that."
>> Yeah, I mean, it just >> strikes me as like ultimately like the
more things you're able to test in a short amount of time, the better.
Because we never know what's going to work. And if we have our process for
testing like the strategy cruncher, right? Looking at
the columns. Like the first thing we mentioned, I think, when we got on here,
which is as Dave pointed out, was like preaching to the choir. Like it's all
about looking at those features and like
optimizing those columns and and and trying different iterations. And
obviously the strategy cruncher is a way to do that. Like we have a tool for
that. But it all takes time. So it's like if
you can just do a hundred of those, if you can in a short amount of time, I
think that that's like the key here because it's like I the the big
constraint with strategy testing and automated
trading for me so far has been time.
You know, it hasn't been like we have the right process.
It's just how many strategies can I test?
>> You know, I I I can imagine there's some traders listening now that are saying,
"Man, I wish I had that many ideas. I mean, the problem is I don't have the
ideas to be able to test. I would love ideas to test." And that's a common
pattern that I see. New traders don't have the ideas yet.
But at some point, when they get experience, they realize you sort of
convert to the bigger problem, which is you have
too many ideas. So as you progress as a trader, that is
going to be the ultimate bottleneck. You're going to have too many ideas.
It's really hard for some new traders to really understand and imagine that, but
that's what happens as you progress as a trader.
>> Absolutely. Well, Dave Dave, we'd love to have you on again
to get deeper into like Tim said, like these skills and maybe just try to
unpack like some of the specifics because this
is just this conversation could go on for a
while, and it's kind of outside the scope of like the points you wanted to
make today, but I mean, as far as the actual takeaways of this, I think that
like there's there's probably like another layer
that if traders are really interested, cuz I know I am,
um could probably get a little bit more specific to figure out, okay, like what
are these skills that I can create? Like how do I do that?
>> Yeah, I'm happy to come back on and we can talk through that. I mean just the
process of you know, listening to your podcast and
what you've the good work you've put out about how you're you know, your
dashboards you're creating using Claude um
got me thinking about this and yeah, I mean this was useful for me
and I know I'm going to start thinking now about okay, how I'm probably going
to make some some of these skills available on my mailing list. So
and and then I've got this bigger project that's in the back of my mind.
So so my real goal here we're talking about one shotting. So so
my real goal ultimate goal here is to create a tool
that you can give it a chart and then it can come up with
different starting point strategies based on that chart that would capture
that move. >> That's pretty sick.
>> And I'm close like I'm close to being able to do that. I just need to carve
out some time for myself to put that together, but I can see a path for that
working and that's I'm excited about that.
>> Okay, yeah, I want to talk about that. >> Yeah, that gets me that gets me thinking
a lot, so we'll be we'll have to talk again.
>> Yeah, yeah, and I'd I'd love to get your feedback [snorts] on that. Like we
should talk offline about that project and what I'm thinking, so.
>> Yeah, definitely. Well, thank you again for coming on, Dave. As always, this is
so much fun for us. >> Oh, thanks for having me. Yeah, it's my
honor to be on here. This is a great You guys are doing such a good job.
>> Yeah, and and congrats on getting to 100 podcasts of of your your own. That's
great. I heard the I heard the news there. That's a big feat.
>> Yeah, thanks. I can't believe we did that.
>> Yeah, that's very impressive. Congrats. We're on your tail, but not we're far
away. We got a little little ways. >> Yeah, well, we're hitting the
inflection. Um all right, thanks, Dave. We'll talk to you soon and and hopefully
on here uh not too far into the distant future
again so we can we can continue this conversation.
>> All right, great guys. Thanks for having me.
>> All right, thanks guys.