I got to get this right. 130 million in
revenue and 110 million in profit.
>> Yeah. Little by little, my first year I
made about 5 million. My second year I
made like 25 million. My third year I
made 45 million.
>> In 2008 you actually lost how much
money?
>> It was close to $200 million.
>> That was around the 2008 financial
quest. Why did you have so much
confidence in those mortgage back
securities?
>> You know um
>> you're working with clients at that time
with the market collapsing. How do you
have that tough conversation with them
and say, "Hey, your investment with me
is gone."
>> That's a great question. It's a very
important lesson.
>> You talk about diversification. One of
the things that you've recently got into
is in the film industry.
>> It's almost like God brought me into the
whole film business. Honestly,
>> if you die tomorrow, what would your
last message be for the younger
generation?
>> Oh my goodness.
>> What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Josh and Jack and we are sitting right
now with a finance legend, John Deainy.
Listen, you've made hundreds of millions
of dollars throughout your career as a
bond trader in the mortgage industry,
but you've traded a, you know, a whole
bunch of other things throughout your
career. In 2008, you actually lost how
much money?
>> Well, it was a a tough year for me. I
was 37 years old. It was uh close to
$200 million.
>> But you didn't let that phase you,
though.
>> No, definitely not. We uh you know we
had uh we had built such an incredible
business and I was so connected to my
industry at that time that uh we got
knocked down and uh it was a it was a
pretty tough time for me but uh um we
bounced back and fortunately with a lot
of businesses if you're an entrepreneur
it is important to diversify and uh in
one shot in November of 2007 I said
goodbye and I let go of my impressionist
and postimpressionist uh 45piece art
collection and I got 55 million for that
in one shot. Bam. And then it was kind
of put that into my trading account and
went off to the races and kept trading
and uh all those subprime bonds that had
collapsed at that time. I'm sure a lot
of you guys have seen uh the movie The
Big Short. I was in the book. Michael
Lewis had called my office many many
times trying to interview me and get my
take on the whole financial crisis. I
was a very big player involved in all of
that. I mean my broker dealer, United
Capital Markets that I founded in 1999
was an innovator in making markets and
all these newly created uh engineered
bonds. You know, they started
securitizing bonds backed by subprime
auto loans and aircraft loans and
franchisee loans backed by Taco Bells
and Burger Kings and they had commercial
mortgage loans and of course you've
heard of the subprime mortgage loans. So
back in the 90s, they innovated all
these new structures, but they they
hadn't been tested and hadn't traded
before. And many of the collateral, they
just misgueded it. It didn't perform
that well. And you know, these deals
have a A, a B, a C, a D, E, sometimes an
F. And the lower you go, those are the
ones that get wiped out first. So when I
my contribution to the whole structure
finance market was that I I started my
business in 99 and uh and I studied how
all these bonds had worked. I was really
fascinated and I wrote little papers on
them things and I you know little by
little my first year I made about 5
million. I reinvested all of that back
into these high LTV home equity bonds.
There had been a crash in 1998 called
long-term capital. It was uh the first
time that the Federal the Federal
Reserve did an intervention and gave
credit lines and lent money to the large
banking system. And this hedge fund
called Long-Term Capital was leveraged
something like 50 times. Like it should
be illegal to have that type of leverage
like or 25 to 50 times. So they had like
a hundred billion of debt that it was
spread all across Wall Street and they
went under and lost all their equity.
And so there was this crash kind of like
the financial crisis in '08. It made a
lot of my career because all these new u
uh structure finance bonds, they were
owned by these same hedge funds that I
had just uh met. Uh and a lot of them
had uh these ABS bonds using borrowed
money. And so as long-term capital blew
up, the prices of everything started
going down. And then these other hedge
funds got margin calls and they were
forced to sell a lot of these newly
created asset back bonds. And on the
other side, I had pitched some mutual
funds and others that weren't
contaminated. I was just 29 years old
and I figured out that a lot of these
high LTV home equity bonds might not
lose. They're all had like a 740 FICO
score. It was really good credit. You
could borrow 125% of the value of your
home. It was this sort of weird home
equity product where you got even more
out of your home than normal home equity
loan. And that uh that made my business
is sort of being in between all of those
initial flows.
>> So John, take us back to the days when
you were in college because you started
to make a significant amount of money
when you were even in school. You know,
could you kind of go back to you know
and that that was at a time before you
you know you mentioned that there's all
the technology that we have today. What
was your journey even before this
getting you know before you were trading
hundreds of millions of dollars uh in
the mortgage business? tell us that.
>> Yeah, they uh I mean when I was in
school, I was hungry, okay? And uh I was
hungry to get ahead and to get straight
A's and hungry to make money, okay? And
uh and that goes a long way for
everybody and anybody that that's out
there that's young that's young, okay,
you've got to be hungry. Anyway, I mean,
I'm an upper middle class kid. Went to
boarding school, private schools, all
that. My dad had some troubles when I
was in high school. I started rebelling.
I got kicked out of different private
schools and boarding schools and stuff
for being kind of a [ __ ] up and drinking
and sneaking off campus and doing all
fun stuff actually. But anyway, and
graduated high school with a 18 GPA. So
it was when I went to college and I went
through the community college and I
realized I went to Tallahassee Community
College and I graduated Corable High
with a 18 GPA. You know, it was like a
promoting bars and having keg parties
and just didn't give a [ __ ] My brother
dropped out of school, joined the Krats
here. And so I was really off track. But
when I went to community college, I woke
up and I was really mad at my dad. He he
kind of quit life and quit his job when
my mom divorced him. So I had no money.
Now I'm on financial aid. I was really
mad at everything. But I just kind of
grew up. And at at uh community college,
I got a a 40 and then I talked my way
into Colorado State. Um you know,
there's no email back then or anything.
you like mail an application and I
convinced the admissions lady to on the
telephone. I was so good in sales to let
me in and then I went to Colorado State
did well and uh that's where I started
to do small businesses and and I made
straight A's double major the whole time
won lots of scholarships but uh but yeah
early on like if you're in college I
mean you've got to like be hungry and
follow dreams that you have. I mean, you
know, my first big score, uh, you know,
I I had the guts to go to the owners of
the Shore Club Hotel on South Beach. I
saw that a sister hotel called the
Sassoon had a closed down lobby bar. And
because I was such a hustler and I
promoted some clubs even in high school
here like you know to get the door money
that uh I I I pitched them on a third of
the cash register and the summer of my
sophomore year was my first score. I got
90k in cash that I went back to college
with. That was my cut of the cash
register. I mean because you know so
many people came to my bar because I was
such a promoter. And uh and anyway that
gave me a lot of confidence in college
like hey you can make money. You don't
need to blow the money on drugs and
being a [ __ ] You could have straight
A's. Like what about performing and you
know excellence in college. So then like
I kind of turned around. I'd already
done all the partying in high school.
And now like my new identity was
excellence and trying to get the highest
grade in every single class. Like I
studied so hard. I mean I'm smart but
like I really studied for every test and
I was like [ __ ] it. I'm going to get
100%. You know, it felt great when I get
96, 98, 100%. Especially after I was a
[ __ ] up in high school. So, like doing
well like feeds on itself. It gives you
all this confidence and you know,
stepping out and doing things that are,
you know, different than other people
from an entrepreneurial standpoint. The
uh so yeah, in college was interesting
for me. I started trading stock options
in college, which uh
>> Could you go on to that story though
because you didn't just start trading
options and stocks in college. There's a
story behind that. Could you walk us
through how you got the the funds for
that initial trade in and the story
behind those first couple trades?
>> I mean I mean and I and I and I wish
Okay. Like when I was getting out of
college, people were like, "Man, John
Deainy, what a whiz kid. He made all
this money on stock options. He's so
smart, a genius, and everything." And
like the truth is it was like kind of
better to jump on an opportunity and uh
you know and have like some of the
facts, okay, and have the guts to go out
on a limb. Um with uh with the money I
made uh trading stock options in
college, it was simply that my first
class on securities, stocks and bonds
called introduction to securities. And a
lady, Mrs. Burns um taught the class and
we I absolutely loved it. I didn't know
the I didn't know [ __ ] I didn't know
what a stock was or even a bond,
nothing. I mean, I was a finance and
English major studying accounting and
marketing and all this is my first class
on securities. One of the chapters was
on stock options. And I looked at it and
I was like, "Holy [ __ ] look at this."
Like, you can only lose 100% of your
money and you could make, you know, 10
thou like a,000% you make 10 times your
money. options have all this principles
of leverage in it. And in our course,
you know, the the the the teacher worked
at like Meil Lynch or Morgan Stanley or
something. It was in wealth management.
And we were like, "Wow, she's so smart.
Such an interesting world they're in in
all the investments." And then one kid
in the front row was like, "My dad works
at Meil Lynch. He's putting all of his
best clients into Motorola stock and
he's saying that the earnings are going
to come out and they're going to be
phenomenal. the stock's going to shoot
up. And I was listening to all this and
I was like, and we're on the uh ride
home and I bought my house. Uh I had
five-bedroom house and I leased all the
rooms to roommates. So, I had that
little real estate thing going on in
high in college as well. So, we were car
pooling on the way home and I told uh I
told Jamie and Joe that were in the
class. I was like, "Hey guys, like
[ __ ] that guy's dad works for Meil
Lynch, okay? like he says the [ __ ]
stock's going up. Like this is when we
should use those options, okay? We could
like get in like you can make like five
or ten times your money. They're like,
"Dainy, you're [ __ ] crazy, dude. Like
you're [ __ ] crazy." And I was like,
so I thought about it. The next day I
grabbed the uh yellow pages on the top
of the refrigerator, by the way. I mean,
no internet on your phone. No, there
wasn't [ __ ] okay? Yellow pages. So you
got to go to the damn yellow pages and
figure out where to go shopping or
whatever. like that's where everyone's
in the yellow pages. I went in there,
looked up all the brokerage firms, found
a discount brokerage firm at a mall,
rode my mountain bike there, took 3,000
bucks I just won from the a scholarship
from the uh Cubiscane Women's Club that
had hit my account and I put that on out
of the money calls I bought at 50 cents
on Motorola and I got back like 14K and
that was my first sort of win in the
securities market and but it kind of
hooked me a little bit. I mean, I
started studying stocks and trying to
figure out different strategies and I
tried trading some other stocks. I
wasn't really that good at that, but I
hit this Motorola thing eight out of
eight times in a row. Okay? Every time I
bought out of the money calls, every
time I made between like four times and
seven times by money and the wind
started getting bigger, I got 20K and 50
and one time I got a 100K. I mean like
so uh anyway there that was just like
sort of you know having the guts to go
and try something totally out of the box
and different and believe and you know
uh you know taking a risk. So I mean I
wish that I was like some genius that
built some options model or whatever but
uh but you know you get those early wins
in college and it gives you incredible
confidence. I mean I wouldn't be who I
was today or I wouldn't have started my
own broker dealer in my 20s. I think I
was the youngest person that got
approved by uh FINRA which is the
regulatory body to even own a broker
dealer. It's a big deal. It's like
owning a bank, you know. So I had to go
through all these interviews and stuff
in my in my late 20s and uh so you know
doing all those early things helps you
to get confidence to try even different
things later on.
So you got the confidence, you got the
belief in yourself, and then eventually
you decided to start your own brokerage
as opposed to going to work for some,
you know, huge firm or hedge fund on
Wall Street. You wanted to compete
against Wall Street in a sense. Why did
you want to do that?
>> Yeah. The uh I mean my um really out of
fairness, you know, I I I got a first
job like a lot of people did. Actually,
a part of the story that's uh that's
actually really crazy is that my first
job I was a registered rep and I was
trying to sell mutual funds and stocks
and stuff to wealthy people on
Kibiscane, but I mean nobody and it was
at a smaller firm uh a family this live
family on Kiscane. um had a brokerage
firm and the the uh my my friend John um
who I wor with back then um his mother
had a lot of State Farm uh franchises
all over Latin America and they were
selling mutual funds and products to
through that whole network
and they knew that I did real well in
school with these options. They're like,
"Oh, we could hire him." But you know, I
got my series 7, but most of the people
were like, "Uh, no thank you. You know,
call me when you're older. You're 24
years old. you're trying to like, you
know, you're not at Meil Lynch or Morgan
Stanley. It was kind of like a a smaller
firm here in Miami. And uh so that was
very difficult. So I decided that I was
willing to risk a really big trade in
the options to try to make a big score
to get like six or 700,000 bucks in one
pop. And uh I found
a a boutique hotel that was off of
Washington on this big property. Had a
big restaurant and pool bar and I could
have like pool parties and stuff there.
So, I wanted to buy this hotel and I
think it was like 1.2 million back then
and the guy told me he'd give me a
600,000 loan if I came up with the 600.
So, I did like 120,000 on out of the
money calls and then it was the one time
and Motorola came in a penny under and
the stock went down. I lost everything,
you know, and that was when I was like
24. So, if you want to know when you're
hungry as [ __ ] or when you need to be
able to [ __ ] bounce back and I went
through [ __ ] eight quarters of
winning this [ __ ] thing and doing
other entrepreneurial stuff and having
great grades and I never did anything
wrong and then I got [ __ ] slapped.
Bam, bam, bam. And I even bought more
options in my account and my account was
upside down. I was like doubling down
which I should shouldn't have been doing
at this firm because they would probably
fire me. But I had just bought a [ __ ]
2-year-old Mercedes for 35k. That's like
a $100,000 one today or more. Like a
totally badass 2-year-old car and uh
went back and like and I only had it a
month and I went back to this luxury
used car lot and they gave me 25K which
I had to put into my account so it
wasn't upside down. So I was like pretty
broke and that's when I went into the
bomb business. So
>> at the uh at the peak of your company,
United Capital Markets, what was the
most amount of revenue you guys were
doing?
>> Um yeah, I mean we had a really really
good interesting run um you know when I
had started uh just because I was
focused on these all these structural
finance bonds where there really wasn't
a market and we were such a specialist
and you I hired some other teammates
that helped me grow out my company and
we were you know leading speakers in all
these different subcategories.
um you know at all the conferences we
had a lot of credibility and we had you
know parlayed a lot of the earnings
every year. I think my you know my first
year I made 5 million that was in 99 I
was 29 years old. So then I reinvested
all that buying more of these bonds into
my book and a lot of these bonds were
making like 30 40% returns like giant
returns all these out of favor areas
after uh long-term capital blew up. So I
kind of rode a bunch like the doubleb
rated piece in these high TV deals
traded down to 30 and they all paid off
at 100. So I was like riding these same
incredible turnaround story bets as my
clients and so I was making money right
alongside them. So my second year I made
like 25 million. My third year I made 45
million. My fifth year I lost a bunch on
this corporate bond conco. Uh anyway, I
was consulting Gary Went who came from
GE and wrote, you know, a number of
books on leadership and these types of
things. So I was consulting GE and their
whole board on the acquisition that they
made of a big the largest ABS issuer was
called Green Tree Finance. But anyway,
they had paid too much and issued all
these uh preferred bonds, billions of
dollars of debt to acquire Green Tree.
And they it's probably worth a billion.
They paid like four and a half billion.
So I kind of modeled all the assets they
bought and anyway they wound up going
bankrupt and that cost me that year but
then the next year I bounced back. Well
actually I think I made like 5 million
that year in O2 but 03 I think we did
110 million of net income on 130 million
revenue. It was interesting. I was at uh
a dinner at uh the Senate Majority
Leader's House uh Bill Frist and uh and
President Bush was there and they
invited like the vice chairman Ken
Wilson of Goldman Sachs. There was the
CEO of Bank America and all the you know
biggest banks that were there and they
had me there. My first general counsel
went to school with uh the senator's
kids and so he always visited me and
went on my boats and stuff down here and
we had a relationship so he wanted me at
this dinner and uh and then the chairman
of Goldman looked at me. I'm 33 years
old and and he's like well you know what
do you do? And I was like blah blah
blah. He's like oh what kind of revenues
do you have? I was like oh you know we
had about 130 million last year. He's
like oh okay that's not bad. What kind
of profit margin do you have? Like 10%.
You know a lot of broker dealers they a
lot of expenses a lot of payroll. And
I'm like, "No." You know, I was like,
"Over 90%." And he's like, "Wow, that's
like, you know,und something million." I
was like, "No, I know the uh" He's like,
"That's better than Raymond James
Financial and Jeff, you know, two big
regional broker dealers that were
public." and I'd been kind of studying
them when I was younger and trying to
sort of copy some of their businesses
and uh and so anyway, so yeah, the early
years of my business, it was a very very
interesting roller coaster ride that saw
us uh you know, trading billions of
dollars of these uh structured
>> finance. I got to get this right 130
million in revenue and and 110 million
in profit.
>> Yeah. About 20 million.
>> How did you run so lean? How is that
possible?
>> No, because it's like bond trading is
just buy and sell the bond. They live in
my account. Like I mean I just had 20
million of expenses. I mean a lot at
that time I had uh well actually I
hadn't bought um I kind of went on a
buying spree and bought a lot of real
estate on keeping that I gave out to all
my family members that year to diversify
which is you know it's good to to do
that but uh
>> the uh the the thing that's so
fascinating is I feel like the average
person is so afraid to take risks and
and with a lot of these trades it wasn't
that like you were taking these massive
risks you were just seizing opportunity
and then reinvesting a lot of what you
made in order to make bigger trades on
that end. Is there any sort of like key
or what do you think was the factor that
like enabled you to be able to feel
comfortable taking those risks of like
you made the money and then taking that
and in like doing even bigger trade the
next time? What what what was that like?
>> So I mean just to kind of explain you
know the the the broker dealer business
is like a big conveyor belt. Okay. So we
make money on all the flow. So like
we're buying and selling stuff when
customers need to sell, hedge funds,
money managers, insurance companies,
mutual funds. So they come out with
lists, they invite all the big dealers
to show up at the auction. So like our
role is to buy this stuff with my own
money and then we take it into our books
and then we try to sell it the same day,
next day, the day after. So we're a
principal market maker. You know, some
of the dealers only act as agent and
they solicit bids from people, but some
of the dealers carry inventory. So we
were doing that competing against the
big dealers on Wall Street Wall Street
that also carried inventories and but
that we had more market share in the
riskier subordinate bonds like the C and
the D and the E tanches than they did.
So we had a lot of flow. So like every
if you could make two points on every
billion you make $20 million. So so if
you trade you know five billion of stuff
and you're making two points on all the
trades then you make a hundred million.
So the it's not like
you know so it's like a giant conveyor
belt like we're making things like
things come onto the conveyor belt they
bounce along we're like okay sell that
at a profit get rid of that put another
thing on there get that then it's about
relationships and sales and knowledge
and modeling and winning over the
clients and trying to educate newcomers
into our space and write you know uh
little white papers and things like that
and primers to educate folks in the
area. So we did all these other things.
You know, we spoke at conferences and we
were, you know, we were an advocate for
the industry. We spoke out when we
didn't like how some of the legal
structures were were not aligned with
the investors. So we're kind of also an
industry advocate for a number of years.
And so anyway, like the so we were
basically, you know, having a dealing
business that ultimately would have been
from one of these very very large banks
and and but at a regional firm and uh
you know, doing similar business to any
of them or more and uh so so it's really
like a niche that we're good at is is
you know running a a marketmaking book
in these bonds.
>> What was it about the mortgage business
that made it so profitable during that
period of time? Well, it's just that
that when when there's not liquidity,
liquidity means like when you need to
sell something and like nobody really is
comfortable bidding. That means things
are very illquid. So, you know, back
then that the market was so illquid
that, you know, there weren't very many
buyers after long-term capital blew up
in 1998. And so, I was one of the only
buyers. So if you can identify different
markets that need liquidity or that are
underserved, that's kind of like I guess
what I what I did is that I embraced the
fact that there wasn't really a big
market. You know I'm 29, 30, 31 years
old and uh and then you know studying
these bonds, becoming an expert in them
and then little by little you know
investing my own money, taking positions
that I believed in with my own money.
You know, my motto back then was, you
know, I won't act as agent because the
agents are [ __ ] and they say anything
to make a commission. But if I buy a
bomb with my own money, right, then in
my heart, I know that I already like it
and then I can sell it to my client in
good faith. It was good enough for my
money on the way in. So, a lot of people
when I was younger respected me because
I would not act as agent because they're
[ __ ] and they say anything to make a
commission, you know, and so, you know,
we're only a principal and we we we we
you know, we we have that philosophy to
this day right now. You're not just
managing your own money, you're also
managing other people's money throughout
this process. And one of the things
you're most known for is throwing some
of the biggest parties in the business
and finance space. Could you tell us a
story about how one of those parties
went and how much of that was for actual
business growth or just personal
pleasure?
>> That's a great question. Um, first of
all, um, I don't manage anybody else's
money. I only trade my own money in my
broker dealer. There was a period from '
05 to ' 07 that I had a hedge fund that
I put my own money in and it was the
number one fund. It made like 49% the
first year after our 20% fee. Okay. And
then the next year it was had a billion
in it made 42%. So I was the number one
hedge fund manager out there. I had
another asset manager that I was advised
by Goldman who was advising me. They
were going to take my business public
and issue me corporate bonds. And they
said I had to go into asset management
and do investment banking. So I did
several investment banking deals. I
started up this asset management. I was
following the advice of these
consultants that were trying to bring my
company bigger until I was derailed in
the into the crash. But uh but anyway,
so I at a period of time to answer your
question, I did manage other people's
money, but I did close that business.
Now I I don't. But anyway, um with the
industry conferences, uh you know, I was
asked in 99, you know, nobody went to
the opening night cocktail reception at
this uh conference called ABS West. So
it was out in like Scottsdale, Arizona.
At the time, only 800 people went there.
And I had shown up and they knew I had a
broker dealer. I was like fresh meat and
they were like, "Hey, like do you want
to become a sponsor and work with us? Do
you know how we could get people to go
to the opening night cocktail party?
Nobody goes, you know, and I'm like,
that's easy. Just hire a [ __ ] badass
live band, you know? I really love
music." And I was a promoter like in
high school and throwing giant parties
to make money and whatever. So I had
Blues Traveler play in 99. They're only
30 grand. Now they charge like 70. And
so it was like 30 grand. All the sound
and stage to put it in a ballroom was
probably like 25 grand. So then he paid
for all the drinks and stuff. So So I
threw this uh this party, invited
everybody at the conference to go. You
know, the clients are like the real
desired people to connect with like
hedge funds, money managers, mutual
funds. Um and there's a lot of vendors
that go to conferences that sell
products that a lot of people wouldn't
really want. But I invited everybody. I
was very inclusive. Had everybody come.
And then the next year and I gave
everyone a concert t-shirt kind of like
you know in your fraternity you all get
a party t-shirt or whatever and uh but
it was good you I got to make a speech
to everybody and we picked up a lot of
new clients that were there that you
know were an innovator in this area and
then a lot of these clients were like
holy [ __ ] we didn't know that United
Capital was doing all these ABS and R&Bs
bonds I was like you know all of a
sudden our client roster was growing
very quickly and you know you could make
100 grand on one trade who cares you
it's my own company. don't like. And so
then we uh we did uh two or three uh
events working with these uh conference
coordinators. There was a nonprofit one
called ASF that started up because they
didn't like how the one for profit you
could like sponsor and pay a couple
hundred grand and then have speakers be
on all the panels. So it was a little
bit like paytoplay and so a nonprofit
one came up. But we would pay for the
conference the uh concerts at both of
them and did that up until the financial
crisis. We had Counting Crows one year
when they were number one, whatever.
They had their number one hit, Mr.
Jones. So, I think they were like 350
grand. That's kind of like that was an
03. That's like getting Lady Gaga or
something now. Like, she'd be like 2
million. But the uh So, we used to have
these big events at the conferences. It
kind of connected everybody. It was like
a big thank you. Uh, you know, to give
back to my whole industry. It was pretty
cool. I They used to let me land my
Sorski helicopter on the golf course at
all these conference facilities. So then
I'd be like, you know, speaking on all
the panels, having a big show, and then
I'd take all my clients for rides in my
helicopter and take them to the Grand
Canyon from Scottsdale, fly to the Grand
Canyon, go along the lip and and uh you
know, it was a really interesting time I
had when I was uh in my you know, mid to
low 30s. There was no internet guys that
made a bunch of money in tech stocks
back then. So like the only way to make
money was you had to like earn it. Um
>> you you had mentioned that at at its
peak you had lost $200 million.
What was the during that time and that
was around like the 2008 financial
quest. Why did you have so much
confidence in those mortgage back
securities?
>> You know um at the time we had like a
book in ' 07 and and and we traded and
invested in like every single area of
structure finance. So we had a book of
residential mortgage bonds, commercial
mortgage bonds, um, CDOS, which are
collateralized debt obligations. We had
franchise ABS bonds, we had home equity
bonds. So we were a leading dealer with
a big diversified book. We're carrying
hundreds of millions in position. I had
like a 250 million credit line with Bank
America. We were a big firm and uh and
so you know we're running the conveyor
belt which is buying and selling and
buying and selling but when you own the
stuff as principal you're going to live
and die with these trades they're either
going to go up or down and so when the
financial crash hit and then you know
some of these really big banks were
getting so shaky and they owned so many
of these AAA rated subprime mortgage
bonds like City Bank had like 50 billion
of them in an offshore vehicle and they
were leveraged like with 1% down or 2%
down. And so all of the banks started
failing because they owned the AAA
pieces that went from like 95 down to 40
and 50 cents. But because they were
leveraged so much that the decline in
the AAA piece of these subprime bonds at
City Bank, Bank America, lots of those
guys um had wiped out in my opinion all
of the equity of those banks. And that's
why when the Fed came in, they made uh
City Bank and Bank America take uh a
hundred billion each and then all the a
bunch of other banks got 50 billion of a
preferred loan and a few other guys got
25 billion. So the Fed came in and
shored up all the capital because the
some of these AAA rated bonds went down
to 40 and 50. Now, the bonds that I had
that were the B and the C and the D and
I had a you know 200 bonds in my book,
you know, we had like we had like 30 to
40 bonds in all these different
subcategories that we we were a leader
in. And then all the subordinate bonds
went to like five and 10 like pretty
quickly. They just went to like almost
zero. And uh so because we had a loan at
the time on the whole book on the broker
dealer like we were very very greatly
impacted and you know it was fairly
difficult. There was some pretty smart
guys that shorted these derivatives at
the time, but uh you know, we didn't
have a lot of exposure to subprime uh
credit bonds in our book, but these
other areas that were less prone to sort
of meltdown, many of which came back
later. Um you know, the subordinate
pieces, as I said, they just went to
like five and 10 cents the dollar. It
was such a big crash. So that's kind of
what ran through our equity very
quickly. It wasn't, to answer your
question, oh did I have all this
confidence and all this stuff. It was
like a a one in a a thousand-year storm
that came and it it wiped out I'm
telling you it wiped out the equity in
like the whole banking system. We're so
lucky that the Fed stepped in and put
you know a trillion of new money, okay,
in the banking system because like the
world as we know it could have stopped
like money would have become worth
nothing like we would have defaulted on
all of the government debt of the United
States of America. like there was a
calamity unfolding because of the
leverage at the time in the banking
system. I mean, fortunately, it came
back and it was bad. I lost, you know, a
ton of money. I wish I'd anticipated and
saw it. You know, I was a very clever
young man and really understood the
mechanics of not only how the bonds
work, but was very good in sales and
trading and, you know, gave back to my
industry at the conferences, was a
speaker and a writer and all this other
stuff. But I couldn't get out of the way
of that happening. And a lot of people
didn't. I mean there, you know, I my net
worth went down by a little more than
half, but I had all this other, you
know, these other assets. I I went on a
yard sale. I sold I sold my GFream that
I bought for 26 million for 36 million
for a profit. Uh, which is unbelievable.
There was a bubble going on right in '
07 where banks started to lend to high
net worth people on yachts and and and
planes. And before that, like the
really, you know, wealthy American
families, like that if they ever had a
yacht, they paid cash. Then all this
like new money was kind of coming in.
The tech money hadn't come yet, but
there were some like pretty wealthy car
dealers and stuff that were killing it.
They were growing up that all wanted to
buy yachts and stuff that had good
money. And if you gave a bank your
personal guarantee, you could borrow
money to buy a plane with like 15% down
and buy like a 30. You need your
personal guarantee. or you could put
like 25% down and buy like a 20 $30
million yacht. So all of a sudden like
all these uh high net worth banking
programs were lending and it created a
bubble in my view on the aircraft market
and the yacht market. The yacht I had I
had a 142 Trinity that I bought new in '
03 for like 16 million and I sold it for
22 million and I had it for four years.
I had my jet for four years, you know,
went up 10 million. It was [ __ ]
crazy. So, in a funny way, like I got
forced to sell out of all this high netw
worth rich guy stuff at the absolute
peak, you know, cuz I got pinched first
because all the subordinate bonds went
down and were cracking and hurting me
before the AAA pieces went from 95 down
to 50 that crippled the banking system.
But the shock waves were all happening
in all the subordinates first and that
kind of impacted me. So when I, you
know, I sold my office building. I had a
40,000 foot office building. I made a
money on that. I sold my art collection.
I sold uh I had some extra houses on
Kiscane
that I was going to give to some other
family members. So I made a profit. I
sold some of that stuff. So I was just
like, you know, raising money to get
expenses down. And it was uh
>> you're you're working with clients at
that time. And with the market
collapsing and you know, you're losing
money, they're losing money. How do you
have that tough conversation with them
and say, "Hey, your investment with me
>> is gone."
>> Again, like we're, you know, we're a
broker dealer. We cover institutional
customers like hedge funds, money
managers, mutual funds, banks. We trade
with other dealers. So, like they're all
really big boys. Like they are all CFAs
and MBAs. They manage all their own
money. Like we're not like they buy
stuff from us, you know, because they
either need to spend their money in the
area that we're in or so. Anyway, I mean
like we all suffered and lost a ton of
money. The financial crisis was super
bad. So, it wasn't like we're, you know,
recommending stuff to granny's and
orphans and, you know, guys and they got
the
>> for for you for you personally during
that, you know, period of time where
you're having to have those tough
decisions, right, where you ended up
selling your jet, sold a yacht, the art
collection. What's what's your thought
process moving on from there? Because
you ended up, you know, kind of staying
in the same game. Um, what
>> I mean it's really about like
>> and and I say that because a lot of
people they didn't recover from that,
right? But you decided that I'm not
going to let this be my downfall. I'm
gonna I'm going to go back out there and
>> build my Okay, so if you were a trader
um, and let's say that you were good at
it and that you had a certain amount. So
maybe now you've got 20 million bucks
and that you run the conveyor belt like
crazy and you're making 50 80% returns a
year, right? On your 20 million because
you got, you know, uh you got great
distribution, people respect you, you
know, guys are buying stuff from you and
uh and then something bad happens and
you lose a lot of the 20 million, but
then you got money in art and real
estate and other things like that and
that that that's not making you money.
It actually costs you money because you
got to like pay people to take care of
it. I mean I mean I believe you look
like a pretty smart guy. You're going to
be like, "Holy [ __ ] the golden goose
makes the [ __ ] 50 100% returns in a
big year running a big broker dealer,
successful conveyor belt." And you
probably would do the same thing and get
your hands on fresh capital and put it
in there and put the you allocate the
capital to where it makes all the big
return, you know. So, but it's a very
important lesson, okay? That when, you
know, I was killing it. I was taking a
lot of money off the table. Initially, I
mean, I bought like, you know, a bunch
of houses on keep. It was really because
my heart told me to do it because when,
you know, you make over 100 million and
my mom lived up in Vero and my wife's
dad, Leonard, lived in Gainesville and I
was making babies and so I bought, you
know, waterfront homes for all of our
family members on Kiscane. And so my
heart told me to do that. It turned out
that that diversification,
okay, it's really been great for me
because all the properties have gone up
significantly from 2003. So my real
estate portfolio did very well. My heart
told me to do it. If you make that type
of money, first and foremost, take care
of your family. And also the, you know,
if you want something that is like
charges your batteries, that could
really be like your superpower that like
glows inside you to to keep you pushing
and competing and to win against all
these other competing dealers that are
out there and to take these risks and,
you know, do homework at night and model
bonds and, you know, try to predict the
future. It's a lot of hard work. you
know that that the one thing that can
make you do it is is wrapping your arms
around your family and knowing that
you're taking care of all of them and
it's an incredible feeling um if you
have success and then to make it about
you know Easter and Thanksgiving and you
know and birthday parties that include
the grandparents and to move the grand
if you make money you should immediately
you know if you've got small children
move your parents make them live right
where you are for sure that's like the
greatest gift to put the grandparents
near to your children. Nothing is worth
more than that. Nothing. I mean, then to
have my mother right now, my mother
lives uh you know, uh my mother lives
like six houses away. Uh my last house
before I bought this house here in ' 03
was this Key West house and I bought
these two houses next door. Um it was on
the water for my mother and I knocked
one down because they were too big.
They're like six 7,000 foot and they
were kind of on really small lot line
and to make her a garden and then I
bought the properties on the other side
of my house and and moved my wife's
mother into that. So like some decisions
like that to try to like keep your
yourself grounded, make sure the
grandparents are near the kids, have
them all helping uh you know to to to
raise your children and be there like
those are moments you could never give
back. And so like I mean those honestly
like that do you know doing some things
like that when you're younger having an
eye to try to help others like it's all
connected like it gives you superpowers
to like [ __ ] crush it like and then
because like you know it puts a monkey
on your back I guess you're that young
and you're killing it and then you're
taking care of all this stuff paying you
know tons of property taxes and all the
maintenance and everything. I mean I
used to have like I don't know 15 houses
maybe more 20. I mean, I had all these
properties I bought over in this island
on cat K and so it's just like but
anyway, diversity if you make money is
important. Take money off the table if
you're an entrepreneur, you start to
make money, you got to don't have
everything in one, you know,
entrepreneurial business. So whether
it's in real estate, it could be in art,
it could be in, you know, movies or
things like that. You could have a
diversity that uh spreads out risk for
you and and you could go and get it when
you need to and put it back in whatever
the core business might be. Uh yeah, you
know, you talk about diversification,
right? And it's something that you've
preached kind of consistently throughout
this. One of the things that you've
recently got into and are starting to
dominate now is in the film industry and
movie production. Talk to us about that
and and what's inspired you to kind of
go into that industry and what you're
doing all in the film industry right
now.
>> Yeah, it's like I really don't know, you
know, um it's almost like God brought me
into the whole film business, honestly.
you know, a friend of mine uh had
approached me that had been involved in
some films and showed me um some
opportunities. One of which uh dealt
with children and uh and was a a story
uh a movie called City of Dreams. And it
dealt with a true story about a young
Mexican boy who was trafficked across
the Mexican border into LA and kidnapped
and made to work in a swepshot. And it's
about the boy's courage uh to free
himself and to free the other children.
And when I saw the movie, I I was so
touched and I I literally I cried. I had
tears on my face. and I met the director
Mo hit and I talked to him till almost 3
in the morning on a big a zoom call and
I learned the journey it took him to try
to make this film and they needed like
five or six million dollars to pay for
all the advertising and if not the movie
wouldn't go anywhere and it would be
shown on 20 to 30 screens which is what
happens to a lot of independent films
and so I funded all the advertising for
that and uh and got behind that and uh
opened in 900 screens and then uh and
then decided to use my own voice to
advocate for uh the topic which was very
important. It dealt with children and
trafficking in the US has exploded like
500% in the last like seven years. It's
a lot to do with the border. All these
um unaccompanied minor children came to
our border. We admitted them and we
placed them to sponsor families with
like no vetting. So all these kids that
kind of got trafficked and it's just
awful in this day and age to have
trafficking go up. it should be going
down. And so anyway, that's what that's
really what made me get into film is
that my heart told me to do it and then
all the innovation and and my own
ability to use my voice. I've probably
been on about um I was really inspired
by Tony Robbins and Vivc Ramaswami
really I mean these guys saw our film
they wept like I did they started doing
events shoulder-to-shoulder with me and
advocating for our movie and advocating
for this important topic and I was like
these guys are a lot richer than me I
mean they're like billionaires both of
them you know and they're flying around
in their planes and going
shoulderto-shoulder with me to help
promote my movie and I was so touched um
to see other people that, you know,
helped make videos for me. And so it
kind of gave me this incredible sense of
community um that we're all doing
something together and it inspired me
honestly. And so
>> and now you've got a new movie that's
about to come out right now.
>> So our our new movie isn't really a a
social impact film. Um but it's uh it's
got very interesting themes. It's called
The Prince. Um I'm so proud of it. um
being a a producer alongside my daughter
to help to make this story. Um our story
was written by playwright and writer
David Mamemoth. Um and uh it's a story
about a troubled man who lives in a
powerful American dynasty. Um and
unfortunately a lot of his life is sort
of orchestrated for him. And you know,
he kind of is living a lie to protect
the powerful politicians and all of the
the corporate wealth within his family,
but he's a black sheep of the family and
and he's gone through a lot of pain and
he's got some trauma growing up uh with
his father. Hasn't paid a lot of
attention to him. And so he's turned to
drugs and alcohol and exploitation of
women. And uh so uh it sort of
chronicles an odyssey of this troubled
man uh in uh the city underworld and uh
and he's trying to move to gain truth
and ultimately he does find redemption.
Nicholas Cage is in our movie. It's
unbelievable. I'm such a big fan of
Nicholas Cage and I just I can't believe
he loved our script. He plays a pimp.
Our lead actor is my partner and uh
friend Scott Hayes. I mean, he's g he's
going to win an award. I mean, his
performance is just absolutely
incredible playing this troubled man who
uh who really turns the corner. We have
my friend uh that lives on my street
here on Kibiscane, Andy Garcia. He plays
a bad guy in the film. Um JK Simmons
plays the patriarch, incredible actor.
His performance is just outstanding. So,
we got to stay we got to stay tuned for
that when it's ready.
>> Yeah, it's it's coming uh later on this
year and uh we're we're so excited about
it.
>> So, we have two last questions for you
real quick. Very short though. If you
die tomorrow, what would your last
message be for the younger generation?
>> Oh my goodness.
>> Give them one more principle that you
could leave with the younger generation
before we leave here today.
>> Yeah. I mean honestly like you know um
you know pursue your dreams and you know
it might not be being an entrepreneur
you know there's so many important
things to do in life and so it's just
important to be really impassionate
about things and to be and to be an
honest person and uh and loving and
trusting both with family and friends
and authentic to yourself. That's the
most important thing. I mean you know
money isn't for sure. And so I mean over
the course of your career and your life,
you know, you've been called a maverick,
a bond trader, going after, you know,
competing against Wall Street and a man
that's lost money, bounced back, and uh
and and is producing films today. But
when it's all said and done, uh what do
you want your legacy to be? How do you
want to be remembered?
>> Yeah, I mean, my my new thing right now,
you know, at this stage of the game for
me, I uh you know, I love mentoring
young people. Um, you know, I'd like to
I I like to think that, you know, people
in my age could be a great example. Um,
and to live my life that way. And so
that's kind of what I'm doing each and
every day right now. I'm trying to be a
great person. Um, you know, I love being
connected with my family. I love being
connected with uh with uh with my
community. And now with uh Manor House
films um both of our films have uh you
know very very important messaging that
I think is going to help people. You
know the prince has this uh troubled man
who at the end of our story has he has
courage. He has courage to sort of fight
back against all the false narratives
that his family imposed on him. And as
painful as it was to admit that he's had
troubles, he does that in our movie. and
uh you know so um you know now I'm
trying to be a good role model to
people. I'm trying to make great
decisions. We're making fantastic
movies. So like for me my legacy now is
uh you know to try to give back uh to
use a lot of the resources uh and now
redirect them into into doing good
things.
>> I love it. Well, John, this was great. I
really appreciate you and your awesome
advice. We'll be sure to put the links
down to John's uh social media channels
in the description below. For everybody
watching right now, be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content we've got
coming every week going all over the
world to interview the most successful
people just like John Deainy right here.
We appreciate you guys and we'll see you
guys in the next episode.