What if there was a way to multiply the
profit potential of any trade by 10
times or more? Now, that's a bold claim,
but on a professional trading desk, it's
not about hype. It's about strategic
leverage. I'm Mike Belluri, co-founder
of SMB Capital, a firm with numerous
seven and even eight figure a year
traders. They achieve those results by
knowing how to maximize their best
ideas. And in this video, I brought in
our head of trader development to share
the simple, powerful technique. He
teaches them to do exactly that. You
found the right place to learn. So, this
is a chart of Hood from earlier this
week. Two of our traders saw the exact
setup. They both got in at the same time
initially, same price, same chart. One
walked away with like a couple hundred
bucks, the other over two grand. But
what made the difference? It wasn't luck
and it wasn't size. It would be easy to
say the difference is just one traded it
10 times bigger than the other on the
entry, but it wasn't that. It's
something 90% of traders overlook every
single day. Let's break down this trade.
Just a really solid trade. And let's
show you how to stop leaving money on
the table using this one simple idea.
Each of these trades are really good
trades. And I'm not saying that there's
anything wrong with just taking the
really good trade and moving on. For a
lot of developing traders, they just
want to take that really good trade and
then settle in and move on entirely. And
that's okay. But for so many traders,
you'll take a good trade and then you'll
look at the stock later and go, I could
have made it so much better. This video
is for you. If you really want to learn
how to maximize the trading
opportunities that get presented to you,
this is what it's all about. There's a
strategy to doing this and there's a
time to do this. And so few people
actually take the time to understand
when you want to take advantage of the
opportunity the way one of our traders
did and when you want to just kind of
approach it the way the other did. We're
going to first start with this $200
trade and we're going to break it down
because this is a really good trade.
We're going to talk about setup Steve, a
trader who did everything right. He's
sharp. He studies. He journals. He had
hood on watch after a strong close with
a big pull in the day before. Right from
the open, the stock he was watching, it
ripped up. It went right to the highs
and then had a quick pull in towards
VWAP.
It triggered a VWOP continuation trade
in his mind. He waited for that little
consolidation to occur and then he saw
that momentum step in on the tape. we're
gonna break this trade down entirely, so
just stick with us. But he saw that and
he recognized that's an opportunity.
He got a quick quick pull in, holds
VWAP, and he wanted to take that trade.
He took the trade and then sold most of
it right into the top, right? Textbook
classic. He flattened his trade
immediately. the problem, and this is
something we'll talk about a lot in this
video. He checked his P&L, and then he
started thinking about reviewing and how
he's going to watch the tape on this
trade. He felt good. He caught a good
move, a good, solid, fast move. He was
sort of proud of himself because this is
what trading should feel like, right?
That instant reward.
Unfortunately, and this happens a lot,
that feeling of instant reward, that
feeling that what he got was perfectly
enough. And that feeling, it was super
satisfying until he watched Hood stay at
the top and continue on. What happened?
Did he do anything wrong or did he just
miss something? So you can see the stock
had this really nice move and the setup
he was looking for, the setup that he
knows is a day two reversal. It's really
sort of a continuation off the prior
move, but after that bigger pull in and
then that bounce, we were looking for a
day two reversal. We got instantly
rewarded or the potential of instantly
being rewarded with this really fast up
move that triggered him to look for this
trade. Now, there wasn't really anything
he could do right on the open. It moved
really fast, but he was watching for
some sort of pull. Was it going to be a
really quick sideways consolidation like
a hitchhiker? Was it going to be a 9 EMA
continuation trade, which is another
trade he loves, or was it going to make
its way all the way back to VWAP and
maybe be a VWOP continuation trade? He
didn't know, but he knew that this was a
stock he needed to watch because of the
potential of the day two reversal setup.
It's not a setup that occurs all the
time, but it's a setup he's studied and
he understands. He understands when the
opportunity should be presented to him.
So, he's just looking for one of three
different trades.
It didn't just hold sideways. So, it
wasn't that hitchhiker initially. It did
start to pull in. So, he's going to
watch it right at that 9 EMA. And what
he's looking for in that 9 EMA
continuation trade is as soon as it
touches the 9 EMA, do the buyers step in
and start to take the price action
higher? Do we see a distinct change of
character in the tape?
We haven't quite gotten to the 9 EMA,
that blue line, and we're starting to
see the buyer step in. Well, that's not
a 9 EMA continuation trade. It didn't
tag the 9 EMA
because the buyers are stepping in. If
the sellers can push it back down, we're
actually more concerned and we're not
going to take that trade. So, we're
watching this price action as it unfolds
and he just said it wasn't a hitchhiker
yet. He didn't like the 9 EMA
continuation trade because of the way it
was bid up just before the 9 EMA and
then seller said, "Nope, we have more to
sell." So now he's thinking about this
trade from the perspective of it should
pull all the way back to VWAP, which
also happens to be for those Fibonacci
retracement people that really like this
stuff, an appropriate pullback off of
that initial move. So as it comes down
towards VWAP, he's going to look for a
consolidation or a distinct move off of
VWAP. Those are the two ways that he can
get in that trade. You notice how it
sells right down into VWOP. He start to
see some buying pressure. He's starting
to get ready for this trade. He's
starting to think about, okay, now I
need to see where my stop would get put
in first. Again, start with your stop.
As the stop is starting to potentially
get put in, he's thinking about how much
risk do I want in this trade. Now, this
isn't a really high risk trade, and he
was trading with like a $500 daily stop.
So he's really thinking about risking a
pretty small amount in this trade if he
sees it on a relative basis. You know,
ideally you'd want to risk somewhere in
the$1 to $150 range. You know, 20 to 30%
of his daily stop. Nothing crazy, but
just, you know, something right there.
You can see where that pullback low was.
That gives him an instant spot to, if he
starts to see the buying pressure really
come in, take this trade. But we haven't
really seen the buyers take control.
We've seen this little consolidation
that's occurring, but this is still a
little bit of selling pressure. It still
feels like we're going to have at least
one more down move. And so, we don't
want to take that trade quite yet. we
want to see a distinct and noticeable
change or he did in order to take this
trade.
You can feel that apprehension. You can
feel the sellers really starting to try
and push this lower.
But then as we're watching this develop,
you can almost feel that there's this
little battle that's occurring.
Now, we need to see a distinct and
noticeable change and potentially even
wait for it to clear the highs of that
candle where those sellers were put in
in order for us to have a trade. Notice
how much watching we're doing. We're not
acting. We're watching. We're waiting
for the opportunity to develop for us.
And we're calculating where our stop
will go and where our entry will be
before that even occurs. We're not
sitting down and banging the keys. He
wasn't. He was being very calculated.
So, right now we have a stop and we have
a potential entry. The stop being below
the low of that pullback candle and the
entry being basically at the highs of
it. Now, we're starting to see a change.
Look at the change on the tape. You can
notice how much stronger the buyers are.
This was his entry signal. This was
exactly what he was looking for to get
long.
And he got long. His stop went below the
low and he bought above the highs or
right before the highs of that candle.
You can feel that buying pressure come
in. Doesn't that feel good? If you're
long this stock, you're like, "Oh man,
this feels awesome. This is exactly what
I want to see." Okay, a little bit of
selling pressure. Not too worried about
it because I can feel the buyer still in
the stock.
But that always causes a little
apprehension, right? You're in the
trade, you start to get rewarded, and
then it pulls back. Imagine if you start
checking your P&L now. Okay, I'm up, you
know, $75, $80, $100, whatever it is.
Like all of a sudden, that starts to
feel really good.
You start to attach yourself to that P&L
and in the back of your mind, you're
like, I just want to make 200 bucks on
this trade. If I can just make 200 bucks
on this trade, that'd be great. Okay,
I'm going to make 200 bucks if it goes
to high of day, right? Okay, great.
Awesome. I'll make a little more than
200 bucks. and listen to all this
chatter that has nothing to do with the
stock. It's all justifications.
It's all myself, my P&L, how I'm doing.
All of a sudden, this spray higher, you
hit your target and you're going, I just
hit my target. This is great. I can exit
the trade and I can walk off this and
I'm I just made a really good trade. And
again, there's nothing wrong with this.
It's a really good trade. So, we're
gonna stop the trade right now and we're
going to talk about something. You heard
how much talk about P&L and me and this
and if I can just get this was
occurring.
When all of that is happening, he's
taking himself out of listening to
what's happening with the stock. He
hasn't observed the increase in volume
that occurred on that buy. He hasn't
observed the strength of the biders and
how persistent they were.
He made it all about him in that trade.
We have this joke on the desk when
somebody makes it all about them in the
trade. Say, "Oh, did JP Morgan call you
up and say, "Hey, what was your exit?
Let's make sure we help you get there."
Did Goldman Sachs give you a holler and
say, "Hey guys, where where'd you want
to get out of this trade? Because we
want to make sure you hit your daily
target." No. Nobody does that.
So, when you make it all about you in
this trade, just like Steve did, yeah,
you hit your own self-proposed daily
target, but you completely miss all of
the checks in your favor, telling you
that there are large buyers, large
participants, what we call big players
involved in the stock. You caught a
really good VWAP continuation trade,
but you missed all of the information
telling you that there's more being
offered in this trade. and we're going
to show you how you can take advantage
of that without really increasing your
risk just by o risking some open P&L in
the trade. So, let's study Paula's trade
and then look at where she did something
right that he did wrong.
We see this same pull in occurring. And
again, we're watching it faster now just
so we can get the context. We'll slow it
down for the key moments, but you know,
we see that same sort of idea, right? It
didn't check for the 90 EMA continuation
trade. It didn't check for the initial
hitchhiker. Okay, now it's back to VWOP.
Let's see if this is a VWOP continuation
trade. Okay, we start to see some buying
come in.
A little bit of a lift. Okay, we're
seeing the buyers there. Tries to dip
out again. The buyers are stepping in.
Okay, this looks decent for a VWOP
continuation trade, but we need to see a
distinct and noticeable change in the
tape.
We're waiting. She's patiently waiting.
Remember, we're being patient, waiting
for that distinct and noticeable change
on the tape.
Okay, maybe it's just going to roll over
and won't even get a trade. That's fine.
Or we get this opportunity to set up
right for us and we could take it right
here. same exact entry. Let's assume the
same size.
While Steve was focused on being
rewarded,
Paula was focusing on what was
happening. The bid kept stepping
stepping up. The volume was
accelerating. The 9 EMA started to curl
right back up. It's not just a VWOP
reclaim or VWOP continuation trade.
This entire stock is shifting. She's
recognizing the underlying shift that's
occurring because she's focused on the
stock. She's seeing the increase in
volume. She's seeing how the sellers are
trying right there, but they're no
longer getting rewarded. So, in her
mind, she's already in the VWOP
continuation trade.
It's already pushing itself to high of
day. It's worthwhile for her to risk the
open P&L she has to see if this starts
to hold up near the highs to give her a
continuation trade. And if there's a
continuation trade that occurs,
not only will she be able to risk the
open P&L she has, but she could find
another trade that's setting up. This
stock is just acting the way you want a
stock to act. It's doing everything
right. So instead of worrying about how
much she's up, she's going to focus on
managing her risk. This character shift
is so critical. This is telling us
something. But we have to be good
listeners. In fact, it pays us to be
good listeners here. So although it felt
a little uncomfortable during this pull
in, what was really happening? It was
just setting up again. Our scalp radar
flagged a hitchhiker. Now Paula knows
this no longer is just a tape scalp. No
longer just a VWAP continuation trade.
This is a real scalp that's developing
for her. So she's on watch. She's
looking for that buyer to step back in
and take this entire move higher.
Most of the time she would take that
initial scalp. And maybe she's feeling a
little bit of regret like, "Oh, what if
I get stopped out here?" But the way
that that rebid occurred, that context,
that entire shift that occurred, let her
know that there's so much more buying on
the horizon, that real big players are
stepping in and they're more likely to
give you continuation.
So, she'll stay in her position. Her
stop stays right where it was. And then
she's looking for another shift.
and she's going to buy a new trade.
She's going to enter a new trade here
and keep her other trade on as well.
Notice that shift that's just occurring
right now. Notice how those buyers
stepped right back in. This is the sign.
If we get continuation to the upside,
she can buy adding or doubling to her
position and move her entire stop up in
the trade.
Look at the way the buyers are
continuing to buy. This is exactly what
she was playing for. She wasn't checking
her P&L. She wasn't feeling super great
about everything that happened and
mentally checking out. She was looking
for that next opportunity.
She got involved here again.
And now she's in this really good
hitchhiker scout.
She's allowing the stock and the
strength of the stock to talk to her.
Even now as the trade has worked and
she's doing much better in the trade,
she didn't give herself the luxury of
just saying, "Oh, wow. Look at what my
P&L is doing." She was listening to the
stock. She was paying attention to what
was happening in the trade.
Look how much she did. And ironically,
this is probably the time Steve realized
what was happening in the stock and just
felt completely awful. He went from
feeling overly exuberant with how well
he scalped that move to all of a sudden,
I can't believe it's up here already.
Now, he is completely disengaged with
the stock at this point where Paula was
able to stay with it.
Because Paula is able to stay with it,
she's not just thinking, "Wow, this is a
really good move." She's thinking this
is a really good move with increasing
volume and I'm looking for an
opportunity to add again.
I'm looking for the next trade to
develop. I saw the entire context of the
trade shift when we had that buy off of
VWOP and now I'm thinking about, okay,
let's go back to our 9 EMA continuation
scalp.
Let's watch carefully and we're going to
slow the tape down here as we come into
that 9 EMA. She's hyperfocused
on this tape and watching the offers as
they try and push this thing lower and
she's looking for another change. This
also lines up with an ABC scalp, so it's
even better for her.
Let's see if we get that change and get
that additional entry. There's a change.
Do you see that shift?
Did you see how the buyer stepped right
in? We're looking for continuation. She
can add another 100 shares or so here
and she can move her stop up to the lows
of that little pull in right there.
You notice how engaged she is with
what's happening with the stock instead
of what's happening with her P&L?
You notice how engaged she is with how
that entire context, that entire
character shifted.
Now, what's an appropriate exit? Well,
once the 9 EMA breaks, that would be the
appropriate spot to exit.
This is a pure momentum trade. This is
where the buyers should have absolute
and complete control.
Let's watch this stock as it plays out.
Let's watch the tape as we see the
buyers continue to press and press.
She's able to just stay with it by
listening every time it goes up. She's
not exuberant about her P&L. She's just
listening to the stock. She's listening
to the buyers. She's waiting for that
break of the 9 EMA to be her exit. And
so once we get a close below the 9 EMA,
that would be her reason to exit.
We had a test of the 9 EMA and we
actually got another continuation trade.
At this point, it's not the first test
of the 9 EMA after a breakout. So, you
can't take that trade,
but she's waiting for a close below the
9 EMA as her reason to exit.
She's not trying to top tick anything.
She's waiting for the bar to get below
and close.
Notice the difference in your psychology
when you're not trying to top tick
everything. When you're just sitting
there and listening to when that
momentum shift occurs. When you get a
real close below the 9 EMA,
we're starting to feel it get a little
toppy. It's getting really close to
these really important prices. You can
feel like maybe I should be taking some
off here. But when you just allow
yourself the opportunity, you're
preserving what's being offered you.
It's amazing how much predicting we can
all do, how much we can try and protect
our profits by selling into the
strength. But if that's the mantra that
you were going to take, you are going to
stop out way before that. And we'll get
to a really interesting mantra that she
used to help herself stay in exactly
these situations. Now we finally are
getting a close below the 9 EMA right
there. That's our reason to sell.
While Steve was able to sit there with a
about a $200 profit,
Paula's was about 2,000.
Exact same trade. She didn't have to
risk any more than he did initially, but
she allowed herself to listen. Paula saw
the same reclaim as Steve. She got in at
the same prices or about the same
prices, too. She had the same initial
risk as he did. She knows this setup.
They've actually worked together on this
setup. But while Steve took his win and
just kind of mentally checked out, while
he was happy to take what felt like
really easy money, an easy trade, he was
getting rewarded and felt that
gratification of like, wow, that was a
really fast move in my favor. He was
mentally calculating his P&L with every
single tick. We tried to like transcribe
here exactly or describe here exactly
what his thought process was. While he
was all busy and helping himself be busy
with all of that information about
himself, Paula was paying attention to
the setup,
watching the price action
and watching and focusing on something
else entirely. She wasn't focused on
herself. She was watching the way that
rebid occurred,
how it got stronger, how that was
showing real continuation, not just back
to high of day, but the potential for
much, much more. She understood the
setup. She got market focused
instead of personally focused. When
Paula leans in, she really leans in. She
stops predicting what's going to happen
and where the stock is going to go or
where it's going to turn against her or
where should be at her P&L highs and she
has to really start to take a breath and
calmly bring her mind back to her risk
because she sees what she needs to see
in the trade because she knows the stock
is leading and she's just listening,
just following along. She has her mind
open. She can see the next trade.
She can see what her updated reasons to
sell are.
She can hold until that 9 EMA breaks.
Was it riskier for Paula than for Steve?
But in this trade, her risk was actually
shrinking as the trade got smaller.
That's the paradox most traders never
learn to trust. When the stock is doing
what it's doing in the way that it's
doing it, it's actually more risky to
take profits too quickly or to focus on
your P&L than it is to listen to the
stock and even add or or add again when
trades just get presented to you. It's
not really the stock, it's the moment,
it's the opportunity that you're getting
offered. Steve saw a really good scalp,
that VWOP continuation scalp. Paula saw
how it transitioned into a moment, and
that's the whole difference of what
we're talking about today. Both got
offered the same chart, the same
opportunity,
but Paula allowed herself to listen to
the trade story that was playing out.
She knew when to risk more of her open
P&L because the trade was telling her a
new story in real time and she was
listening to that story versus listening
to the story of her own P&L. This is a
monumental shift and one that most
people never try to take on. It's easy
to overengineer, to second-guess
yourself in your abilities as a trader.
That's the easy thing to do. That's the
voice in your head saying you always
sell too early. But that voice serves
you about as much as how much you care
about your P&L while you're in the
trade. Paul is not guessing. She's
listening. She's letting the stock lead.
She's just reacting. Scalp Radar helped
her spot the hitchhiker setting up and
the momentum starting to grow in the
stock so she could just focus where the
real edge was building in this.
She saw that initial scalp, but it made
her faster and more confident when the
stock told her to keep her foot on the
gas when the buyers came in and told her
it was time to go. So, one of my first
jobs was a valet. I remember the dangers
of doing this in a parking lot. Cars
were like going all over the place. The
parking lot was tight. You had to be
really, really careful. And anytime a
really nice car came in the lot, you
could almost feel the caution. You could
feel all of us getting tight as most of
us were nervous to allow that car to get
out of control. It's a nice car. We
didn't want to scratch it. We didn't
want to ding it. You know, we really
didn't want to be wrong. There was this
one older guy who worked with us who had
been there for a couple years, and he
would get in the car, especially the big
boy cars, and after the person driving
them would walk away, he would just whip
that thing around the lot.
It happened a couple times and we kind
of asked him like that's seems a little
dangerous, right? And he had a saying.
He said fast cars have the best brakes.
He was right. The fast cars were the
most forgiving. It's counterintuitive to
our natural instincts. I mean, we're not
here driving cars, but we are trading
stocks. And a lot of the same holds
true. Good stocks with momentum are the
absolute most forgiving.
They seem to be the toughest, but in
reality, they're absolutely the best
things to trade and stick with. When a
stock's building momentum, it can be
insanely forgiving. It can get above a
level and pull back to that level so
cleanly. It can set up one scalp and
then another and then another and then
all of them play out almost picture
perfectly. You know, not all stocks do
this and not all trades feel this way.
But when we go through the tape of hood,
we can feel it. We can see the momentum
building as it starts that second move.
We could see it as it started that move
off a VWOP. We can see how forgiving
this stock really is. Setup. Steve is
really kind of all of us when we start.
He plays defense. He trades to be right.
He doesn't want to make a mistake. His
focus is on sort of protecting himself,
which all of us need to do as a trader
setting up or starting out. But once a
good setup and trade line up, we need to
let ourselves just listen.
Paula's objective when she sits down.
She trades to listen. She trades to get
paid when the opportunity is presented
to her. And she knows the difference
between a setup and a good setup and a
great trade. We just saw a great example
of what a really high quality tape looks
and feels like and what momentum feels
like. Don't get too lost in watching the
tape. Just allow yourself to feel it.
Feel how that momentum starts to build.
Feel as the biders really take control.
You see those spikes that we got? Those
feel good, right? That little blast,
that first move higher, that was Steve's
out. He used that spike to exit and to
feel good. He was thinking about the P&L
he was going to get on his trade. He was
letting himself just get paid in the
trade a bit. But the real edge was in
listening, in being Paula. She sees
this. She feels this and immediately
feels the persistence of the buyer
stepping in. She felt that momentum
starting to build up in this trade. She
felt the forgiveness that was on its
way.
Is there chance that she'll take a
little bit of a rip there when she
doesn't take her initial profits? Sure.
But that's an okay rip to take here.
Even if she gets a really hard down
move, she's probably going to get a way
to get out and preserve a small profit.
The buyers were still there. The
momentum was still building. So, it's
likely even if it quickly pulled back a
bit, the buyers would step right back in
and give her an out at good prices. So,
she allowed herself the opportunity to
stay with that trade. And guess what?
When it cleared to new highs, she was
totally in the driver's seat. She looked
and added her risk in the trade was
already covered and she moved up her
stop. The trade actually got better and
better and they really often do once the
momentum is truly on your side. Then she
could let the stock tell her it's done.
This is a really big challenge and one
that can hold traders back for longer
than you can imagine. But it doesn't
have to. Do you want to know how Paula
did it? how she got her mind to trust
what she was seeing.
This is the secret of this entire video.
She repeated one question to herself
consistently. She did it in practice
first, but then she started to do it in
execution. She asked herself this one
question. Is it real?
Because if it's real, it's going to be
an evolutionary organism. The stock's
going to continue to grow. The momentum
is going to continue to build. If it's
not, the entire trade opportunity is
going to start to decompose. It'll start
to break down. Not usually right away,
but over time. So, she always feels like
when she's asking herself, is it real?
She has time to recognize the exit. She
doesn't feel rushed when she's repeating
this mantra, is it real?
She just is listening.
Ironically, it's helped her pick up on
the alert she gets easier and not force
everything that happens. She can stay
calmer when things aren't there. She can
stay in it when it is there. So, the
real question is, are you just trading
the setup or the trade, or are you
seeing the moment when it actually turns
into a real trade?
Is it real? This happens every single
day. You're not missing trades.
Sometimes you're just missing the best
part of the trades you're already
taking.
The difference between these two traders
and the difference between the outcome
in their trading comes down to one
thing.
Paula knew why she was trading.
Steve thought he knew why he was
trading.
Just ask yourself, is it real?