Michael, you've lived multiple lifetimes
and one high up in the mafia to become a
criminal entrepreneur and now a man
focused on redemption. I grew up with my
father constantly being arrested,
constantly going on trial. He proposed
me for membership into the law. That's
how it started. I was 20 years old. So
you were inducted into the mafia in 1975
on on Halloween night. The night that it
happened, they don't tell you this in
advance. This is a blood oath. And he
said, "If you violate this oath, betray
your brothers and you're going to die
and burn in hell like this saint is
burning in your hands." You have to be a
phenomenal negotiator, especially in
this life. I can tell you this, and for
the young people listening, I want them
to understand this is negotiation. It's
business, not personal. I'm a risk
taker, but my risks are always
calculated. How did you find God? People
ask that and it's did you find God or
did God find you? The worst night in my
life, that was the first night that I
was out of answers. I just wanted to lay
my head on that cot and not wake up.
We're sitting down here having this
conversation. I have never had this
conversation with my wife. We've got an
incredible guest today, Michael Franesi
out of Newport Beach in California. If I
were to meet you on the street in 1985
at the height of your mafia power, how
would you have introduced yourself to
me? What's going on everybody and
welcome back to the School of Hard
Knocks podcast. I'm James. I'm here with
Jack and Josh. And we've got an
incredible guest today, Michael Franesi
out of Newport Beach in California. And
man, Michael, you've lived multiple
lifetimes in one. From, you know, high
up in the mafia to becoming, you know, a
criminal entrepreneur to inmate to now a
man focused on redemption man of God
building multi-million dollar
businesses. Before we unpack all of
that, I want to start here. If I were to
meet you on the street in 1985 at the
height of your mafia power, how would
you have introduced yourself to me? And
how would that differ from the man
that's across from me right now today?
Well, I probably would have introduced
myself the same way. I am Michael
Francis and um but I was in a little bit
of a different position, I would say,
than I am now. You know, I like to think
that I've been the same person, just
have uh you know, different way of doing
things at this point, different mindset,
but the same guy. And so tell us about
some of those early days like h how did
you get come up in the mafia? I know
your father was involved. What were some
of those things that uh he taught you
and how how did that whole process get
started? Well, you know, originally I
was had no intention to be part of that
life. My dad was extremely high-profile.
He was kind of like the John Gotti of
his day. So, I grew up with my father
constantly being arrested, constantly
going on trial, and uh I hated the
police, hated law enforcement, and uh
because I always looked at my dad as
somebody being harassed, our family,
everything else. So, he wanted me to go
to school. He wanted me to be a doctor.
And I was on that road. I was an athlete
in school and I was I was going to
college. I was a premed student at
Hofster University in Long Island. And
my dad gets after three former trials,
he goes to trial a fourth time, gets
convicted for masterminding a nationwide
string of bank robberies, gets a 50-year
prison sentence. Longest sentence for
that conspiracy ever given up to that
point. And uh that was in 1967. In 1970,
he goes off to prison to do his time.
And I was a premed student. Joe Colombo,
who was the boss of the Columbbo family,
he was kind of a mentor of mine. I got
very close to him when my dad went away.
And I started hearing a lot of my dad's
friends. Mike, what are you doing going
to school? If you don't help your father
out, he's going to die in prison. And I
love my dad. He was my hero. So I lose
interest in school. I go see my dad in
Levvenworth Penitentiary. Dad, I'm not
going to school anymore. If I don't help
you out, you're going to die in here.
And he was a little bit upset because he
really wanted me to be the first
professional in the family. That's what
he would say. But he also told me when I
said to him, "Dad, bank robbery, it
doesn't sound right. That's not who you
are." And he said, "Son, I was framed on
this case. I'm no bank robber." He said,
"The government got me." He said, "I'm
innocent." And I believed him. My dad
never lied to me. So, well, in that
case, I got to help you. And he thought
the best way to help him out was to
become a member of his life. He said,
"If you're going to be on the street, I
need you to do it the right way." And he
thought the right way is to become a
member. So, it was at that point he
asked me a couple of questions. and um
he proposed me for membership into the
life because you can't just come up to
somebody and say, "Hey, I'd like to
join." Somebody has to sponsor you,
vouch for you, propose you. In my case,
it was my dad. That's how it started. I
was 20 years old. And so, you were
inducted into the into the mafia in 1975
on on Halloween night, right? What was
that process like? And what emotions
were you kind of feeling in that moment?
Well, you know, it's a very serious
process because they want you to know
the seriousness of what you were getting
involved in. And I worked for two and a
half, three years to get to that point.
You know, I was a recruit and I had to
do whatever I was told to do to prove
myself worthy. And so the night that it
happened, they don't tell you this in
advance because it's a secret ceremony.
So all of a sudden one day, hey, you
know, meet such and such a place, wear a
suit. But you hear that almost every
day. And then I got the feeling that
Halloween night that this was the night.
So, it was myself and five other
gentlemen and it was late at night cuz
we had to make sure the law enforcement
wasn't following us and um it was in a
catering hall in Brooklyn. Joe Columbo's
son had a catering hall there and we
went into a room individually and we had
it was set up like the boss of our
family were sitting in like a horseshoe
configuration. The two other official
positions under boss consiliary to his
left and right and all the cop regimes
or captains were alongside of them. We
had about 15 in our family. So I walked
down the aisle, stood in front of the
boss, held out my hand. He took a knife,
cut my finger. Some blood dropped on the
floor. This is a blood oath. I cuped my
hands. He took a picture of a saint, the
Catholic alter god. Uh put it in my
hands, lit a flame. It didn't hurt. It
burned quickly. It was merely symbolic.
And he said, "Uh, tonight, Michael
Francis, you are born again into a new
life into Kosra.
Um, if you violate this oath, betray
your brothers and you're going to die
and burn in hell like the saint is
burning in your hands. Do you accept?
Yes, I do. That's the oath. That's how
it started for me. The other five guys
went in. They all took the oath and you
come into the life. You come in as a
soldier. That's the first official
position and that was it. Now, you
became one of the most influential
people in the mafia at a very young age.
And I think in today's world, you know,
there's this concept where if you're a
young guy in an industry, a lot of times
if people don't see enough gray in your
hair, they don't necessarily have a lot
of respect for you. Now, you having that
much influence at a as a young guy, what
were some things that you did to kind of
establish your credibility and build
that respect from your peers all around
you, from some of the elder people? So
like despite having some of the family
ties uh from some of the people that
were in the mafia, how did you build
that credibility and respect get the
respect of those older people at a young
age, you know, being very young with a
lot of influence? You know, it's a very
good question, very good point because
the younger guys always have a lot of
resentment. And in that life, it's
intensified because you had guys in
there that were made guys, and that's
the term for 25, 30 years. And all of a
sudden, here's this young guy coming in.
You're going to tell me what to do. Even
though when you take that oath, you're
all equal. You're told that no matter
who's older, younger, you're all on
equal terms. So there was a lot of
resentment, especially when you're
successful. So I figured out at a young
age, look, I have to make these guys
understand that even though we're on the
same level, I give them a little bit
more respect. So I was always very
diplomatic with them as best as I could
be unless they crossed the line where I
had to say, "Hey, enough is enough." But
I always made them feel that I was
giving them more respect than than I
could have. Let's put it that way. And
that kind of endeared them to me. So I
learned that early on. You know, you got
to learn how to read the room, so to
speak, when you're involved in anything.
And especially in that life because the
consequences of not knowing that can be
pretty severe, right? So, um, but that
was it. I I gave them a lot more
respect. You know, I can give you so
many examples of that, you know. Could
you give us
You know, this is intense, but you asked
for it, I'll give it to you. You know, I
was a captain in the family, and at that
time, I had a lot of soldiers under me.
Well, they're always getting in trouble
for some reason, brother. Right. So,
this one guy, a Jewish guy who was he
made some very disparaging remarks about
another maid guy from another family.
And he made them to the guy's
brother-in-law. And the guy's
brother-in-law went back and told him.
And you can never disrespect another
maid guy. Can't do it. Even a maid guy
can't respect another maid guy. It's
wrong. Right. So I have to go to this
sitdown. That's what we call it. And in
this sitdown, the guy was from another
family, Genevese family. And he sat down
and he said, "Do you have a guy by the
name of Jerry Zimmerman, Jewish guy
around you?" And I said, "Yeah." And he
was 30 years older than me. And he
pounds on the table. He says, "I want
him
dead." That's what happened. Now, I knew
what happened. And it was all this
disrespect thing, right? Well, this
argument went on for three hours because
he said, "I'm going to kill your guy." I
said, 'Well, now I got to kill your
guy.' I said, ' Because your guy is
lying. I was lying because I knew that
my guy was disrespectful, but I can't
give him up because I'll put him in a
lot of trouble. So, this went back and
forth for three hours. He said, "Well, I
was winning a little bit." He says,
"Well, I'm going to put your guy in a
hospital. That's this life." I said,
"Well, I'm going to have to put your guy
in a hospital bed right next to him." I
said, "You know, if you're going to do
the one, we're going to do it the same
way." Finally, I saw I was getting
nowhere with this guy and the only
solution would have to bring to bring it
up to the boss, his boss and my boss.
And I didn't want that to happen because
you never know when you get to that
level. So, I started to say, "Look, I
know what's going on here. Here's the
deal. I get I have a lot of respect for
you." It was over a car, believe it or
not, where I had a car dealership and
the guy came back and said, "This car
was a lemon and my guy was yelling at
him. Was back and forth was stupid." So
I said, 'I'm going to give your guy a
new car on me. I says, 'Go back, tell
him what you won. You know, you got it.
I said, ' And you can tell him you
defeated me in the argument. You got the
upper hand, and you got him a new car.
That should satisfy him. Well, that kind
of rang a bell with him. And he said,
"Okay." That's how we resolved it. Uh
but there again, I gave in to his age.
Even though he wasn't my superior, we
were on equal ground. And I kind of knew
at one point in time that that was the
only way that this was going to get
resolved if I catered to him a little
bit. So it cost me a car in a long run.
Wasn't a big deal. So I did things like
that to show people that, you know, I
had respect for you even though we're
equal. You've been around here a lot
longer than me. I get it. Now I I had a
quick second part to that question. I
interviewed a gentleman um a couple
weeks ago. His name is Mark Mlan. He's
the CEO of a publicly traded software
company. They do like 700 million a
year. and and he brought up this concept
to me about like reverse mentorship. And
I know I had asked you about how at the
time you being a really young guy, you
know, having a lot of influence. Uh and
now, you know, we were just having a
conversation off camera about how how
old are you now? I'll be 74 this year.
No, you're not. I am. There's There's no
way. Yes. Are you Are you serious?
Serious. You look incredible. 50s.
It's still hard. Are you serious? I did.
Okay. So, but we were having a
conversation about how your entire team
is like in their like mid20s. They're
young. I want to know your perspective
on that reverse mentorship about how and
this is for anybody in any sort of
business. You were on the diary of of a
CEO Steven Bartlett's podcast and we
were with him in Austin the other day
and he was talking to us about how you
know guys like Mr. beast and the the
best people in the world. What they do
is is they have the tables of like the
young guys who maybe they know that
digital marketing, that social media,
but then the older guys who've been at
Paramount or Warner Bros. or YouTube
executives of 20, 30 years. How
imperative do you think it is to kind of
have that instilled in you whether
you're younger or older, but that
reverse mentorship that we can really
learn from people who may be
significantly younger and significantly
older? Oh, it's it's critically
important. I wouldn't be doing the
things that I'm doing if it wasn't for
the young guys that are into digital
marketing and into, you know, all of
this production that I have no interest
in. Uh I probably wouldn't do well in
it. It's just not something that I'm
that I knew I wouldn't be good at. Uh so
it's important. I rely on them, you
know, for our production, for even ideas
conceptually, what's our strategy in
building our social media platforms and
doing our our marketing. So I rely on
them and you know, they rely on me for
advice in certain ways. Okay. So, it's a
great mix and I really uh you know in
today's world, you know, with all the
social media and all the internet, you
got to have young people around you
because they I don't know if you guys
absorb it better than we do. You know,
when I look at a computer, I I just want
to do what I do. I don't want to know
how it works. I I don't want to
originate. I don't want to know anything
about that. I want to know that it
works. When I have a problem, I call one
of my kids, my younger kids, or I call
my team. Hey, I got a problem. Fix it
for me. Don't tell me how. just fix it
so I can work it. That's it. It's
important. Really important. And you
know, look, we've had in my wine
business, for example, my uh my
partner's 25 years old. The work he's
done is absolutely incredible in
building this business over the past
three years. Has he made some mistakes?
Yeah. And I've been able to correct
those mistakes because of my experience.
Uh but it's a great mix and I wouldn't
have it any other way.
I believe I've heard you on a podcast
kind of break down in the mafia, you
know, you have racketeers and you have
gangsters. And the racketeers are the
ones that pretty much they're the ones
that kind of operate, do the business,
bring in the money. How is that sort of
development? How do you figure out who
those people are that have those skills
to do that? And and how can somebody,
you know, transferring kind of in
today's world, um, really shape
themselves into being kind of that
operator, that that money maker, how do
they develop the skills, especially as a
young guy coming up in order to fulfill
into that role? And how do they go into
that route or would they find themselves
as a gangster in the mafia? Kind of
break that down for me. Well, you know,
it's like I always say, do what you do
best, delegate the rest. In the mob, you
don't have to choose who's going to be
that. They're going to present
themselves either way. You're either
going to be a racketeer or a gangster.
And those people that in that life that
don't know how to use the life to
benefit them in business, they're just
not going to make it. you know, if you
try to strong on people and tough guy
people and things like that because a
lot of people think once they get that
badge that everybody in the world has to
give them respect and they're better
than everybody else. It doesn't work. No
matter who you you think you are, you
got to prove yourself in that regard by
who you are. And you got to figure that
out early and most guys don't. You know,
the gangsters, they do all the grunt
work, you know, and I don't want to be
demeaning to them, but it's true because
they got to earn what they've been
given. So they do that work and they
can't be the racketeers. They just don't
know how. The racketeers on the other
hand on the other hand have to be
gangsters also because they're going to
be called upon to do work. So you got to
know both you know but uh it's just a
skill that comes out in you. You either
have it or you don't. And people see
that right away. And I think in in the
real world it's the same way, you know.
You either have it or you don't. Now you
still have to work to improve yourself,
but you either have it or you don't. I
mean, that's that's how I've seen it.
That's been my experience. And in the
example that you were talking to James
about, you were saying like, "Oh, if if
you come after my guy, I'll get your
guy." And you're having that sort of
tense back and forth negotiation of
especially if you're in sort of that
racketeering role, you have to be a
phenomenal negotiator, especially in
this life. What are some of those tips
that like looking back on that life and
what you've carried into business today?
What are some of those things that maybe
the average person doesn't know on how
to negotiate in those tense tough
situations when people's their lives are
on the line? Well, I I can tell you this
and for the young people listening, I
want them to understand, you know, there
is a certain point that you don't you
could be submissive, if that's the right
word, to a point, but then when that
somebody draws or goes over the line,
then you have to exert yourself because
you shouldn't be taken advantage of
because of your age. If you're giving it
up willingly to show a sign of respect,
that's one thing. But don't take
disrespect from somebody, you know, and
I I've learned that. So being one of the
younger guys, I had to go to a point,
but then hey enough, you know, don't
forget now we're both equal here, you
know, and even in life, we're both human
beings. You treat me respectfully and
I'll do the same with you. You cross
that line, it's different, you know, but
again, you know, in in a negotiation, I
think one of the most important or two
of the most important things is number
one, be
prepared. And being prepared is learning
how to read the room and keep your
composure. Keep your composure. Don't
ever blow up. You blow up, you lose. You
know, when you walk out of a room
because nothing's worked, you Hey, it's
not going to work. I'll see you later.
Get up and leave. That's it. Can't come
to him. Yeah, we get it. I've done that
so many times and they've called me
back. You know, I'm not mad at you. This
is negotiation. It's business, not
personal, but it's not going to work
here. I'll see you later. But wait a
second. You know, maybe we can, you
know, tell me what you want to talk
about, you know, otherwise we're done,
you know. And it works. Never lose your
composure. Now, that's a skill because
people can try to do that. You know, I I
got to tell you this. In my former life,
when two made guys were having a
discussion and because of the position I
was in, this happened almost daily where
I had to sit down over a business deal
or over one I just described where
somebody might have been in trouble. And
the older guys were very tactical
because if you're a made guy and I'm
sitting here and you're trying to win an
argument and you're lying through your
teeth and I know you're lying. If I call
you a liar in that argument, I lose the
argument. Wow. Yeah. I can't do that. I
have to figure out how to make the boss,
if he's overseeing this, see that you're
lying without calling you a liar. So
that means I have to be prepared. I have
to know what I'm talking about when I
get in there. You You can't let your
emotions get the best of you. Not ever.
But but I want to touch on that real
quick because you talked about how that
is a skill and I would say I've been a
culprit as well is like, you know, I
want you to talk about how if there was
like a situation where somebody was
trying to lowball you or that they
didn't know your worth. And that can get
under somebody's skin because I know
I've definitely felt that before,
especially if it's coming from the same
person two or three or four different
times, especially maybe if you've
already provided value to that person.
How do you maintain your composure and
not get emotional in that situation? And
like is there is there something in that
moment like how did you develop that
skill or was it just innate? I'm already
prepared to know that he's trying to get
under my skin. I already know that. Just
like I had a a sit down with Bill Maher
on his Club Random and so many people
came back, Michael, how did you keep
your composure? You know, Bill was doing
this. Well, I I I know Bill. I know
exactly what he's going to do. So, why
would I let him win? I knew exactly what
he was going to do, you know, and it's
the same way whenever I go into a
meeting like that, I already know you're
going to try to do something to upset
me, you know, something to get to me.
So, it's not going to happen, you know.
It's my that's my attitude every single
time. There's a couple of lessons there.
There's the ability to keep your
composure, the ability to walk away from
a deal and know your worth. Yes. As well
as the ability to never underestimate
anyone. And especially when you're at a
deal and at a table, you never really
know all the cards that are at play. But
one of the things I'm curious about is
you've built businesses within the
criminal world as well as in the legal
world. Now, what are some of the
principles you've taken from that other
life and now into the businesses that
you have today? Well, I apply the same
principles, you know, again, as far as,
you know, always being prepared and have
a plan. You know, I had, I think, two
talents. People have said to me,
"Michael, you're a brilliant
businessman." And I said, "No, I'm not.
I'm not. There's a lot of people out
there a lot smarter than me. People that
built these, you know, multi-billion
dollar companies, they're probably
smarter than me because they'll do
things that I'm not capable of doing."
But I had two talents. Number one, I was
able to recognize a good opportunity. I
saw ahead and said, "This could work.
this couldn't work. So, I was able to
recognize a good opportunity and then I
was always able to put the right people
in place to do the right job and
motivate them, you know, and I always
looked at I wanted people to buy into
the concept if they didn't buy into the
concept and I knew that long term they
wouldn't be a fit. I might hire them
short term because I needed them for
something, but I knew long term they
wouldn't fit be a good fit. I want
people committed to what it is they're
doing. But how do you get them
committed? you treat them right,
motivate them. Something I I'm curious
about as well is is you said prior to us
chatting here on camera is that uh back
in the day you would have people pitch
you every single Monday on potential
business ideas and opportunities and one
thing I'm curious about is would you
rather back in the day would you rather
bet on a great idea or a great person?
It's always a great person because a
great idea if it's not imple if it's not
uh what was it implemented by a good
person is not going to work. Everybody
has ideas but if you don't have the
right implementation of that idea it's
not going to work no matter what it is.
That's how I look at it anyway. And you
brought up how one of your strengths has
always been being able to identify the
right opportunity. And I want to talk
about in today's world, I think one of
the biggest things that younger people
struggle with is instant gratification.
They have that but they have that shiny
object syndrome, especially with things
like social media. They're fascinated
with the idea of get-rich quick schemes
and all that type of stuff. How did you
maintain your focus on the right, you
know, opportunities that would provide
for long-term gains as opposed to just
seeing shiny object syndrome and wanting
to jump from here to here to here to
here? How do you maintain that focus and
identify those right opportunities and
not get distracted? Well, again, you
know, I I think it's experience at this
point because I've been around for so
long and seen and look, I've had my
mistakes. I've made mistakes. I've had
mishaps along the way. Nothing too, you
know, traumatic or that impacted me in
such a way. I'm a risk taker, but my
risks are always calculated, you know,
calculated risks. Um, but I think again
that just comes with experience. You
know, I had no idea. I was I was very
against getting involved in social
media. I had 43 or 44 speaking events
canled during the pandemic. And so my
team said, "What are you going to do?"
And I said, "Nothing. I'm going to stay
home. I haven't been home like this in
25 years. I'm not traveling." I was
travel 40 weeks a year. This is
wonderful. It's great. Can't do that.
You got to go on social media. I said,
"No, too old for that. I don't want to
go on social media." Well, they
convinced me, the younger guys again.
So, we started our YouTube platform in I
think August of of the year the pandemic
and it just blew up, you know, in my
view. Um, and then I realized, okay, I'm
in business. Social media is the place
to go. It's amazing that you're getting
paid for advertising yourself. What
other medium do you have that you can do
that in? Yeah, they pay me to advertise
my my products. It's amazing. So, I
realized, okay, now it's important. The
brand is important, so I have to
continue to develop this. And so, just
things like that. Something I didn't
know right off the bat, but I learned
pretty quickly how important it was. So,
um, you know, hopefully that answers it.
I don't know. I'm very curious. Uh, I
mean, I I'm sure many people with a
background, uh, in the mafia life, they
probably wouldn't want to talk about
these things or or come forward about
them and and and share them. uh what
ultimately led to your decision to want
to be to kind of open your life up like
this and and and share some of these
stories with us uh on on a public scale?
Very simple. It was a faith-based issue
because instance, I would say because
when I came out of prison, I spent
almost three years in solitary
confinement, 29 months and seven days. I
can tell you the hours to be exact. And
that's very difficult. Very, very
difficult. And if people tell you it's
not, they're not being honest with you.
You know, it's it's a form of torture
when you're confined like that. I'm dead
set against it for people your age that
are confined because it can ruin them
emotionally. I saw a lot of bad things
happened with guys that just couldn't
handle it. And I don't demean them. It's
difficult. Um, but when I came out of
prison and I had become a person of
faith in there, um, people started to
ask me to share my
testimony. and this being in a church
setting. I did it with professional
sports, with college sports. And I would
go to a church in the Midwest and they
didn't know who I was. I had a pretty
big name back east and a little bit here
in California, but Midwest, they didn't
know me. And I would go there and the
marquee it would say the mob guy and it
would be standing room only in the
church. So I said, "Wow, I've been given
a platform. People are interested in
this life. They're intrigued by it. So,
I may as well use this platform to get
my message across. And that has held
strong for 30 years now. I went to
Singapore. Singapore. I'm in front of
1,800 people. I do my thing. My host
tells me we uh as part of the package,
we offered a Q&A. But Michael,
Singaporeans are very polite. They don't
ask questions. They're very reserved. He
said, "We're going to put a shill. We'll
ask a question or two." I said, "Great.
We'll go home early." I was there for
two hours.
Where's Jimmy Hoffer buried? You know
what's the best mob movie you ever seen?
I was amazed at how involved these
people and intrigued they were in my
form of life. So I said, "Hey, I've been
given a platform. I'm going to use it."
And that's it. And it's the basis for
everything I do because people that's
why you see all this stuff around here.
That's that's what the but it gives me
the platform. Yeah. How did you find
God? You know, people ask that and it's
did you find God or did God find you or
was he always there? you just woke up to
it. You know, for me it was um I don't
mind saying it and I have no I'm very
humble with regard to this. The worst
night of my life was when I was thrown
in solitary. I had done five years in
prison. I was out for 13 months and I
violated my parole. I fell into a trap
by the government and violated my parole
and uh they locked me up coming out of a
bank in Brentwood, California. They went
to my house with a search warrant,
cleaned us out. I was married with two
little babies and um they leaned all my
bank accounts, drove my car away and
they were very upset that I wasn't
cooperating with them. They wanted me to
cooperate and on the way to the lockup
they said, "We're indicting you on
another case. We have informants that
are implicating you and some terrible
things." Wasn't really true, but they
were saying that. And they said, "We
violated your parole. You'll never see
the street
again." So they put me in a hole. And it
was the first night that I was always a
control guy. I could handle anything. No
problem. No matter what it is, I'm going
to resolve it. That was the first night
that I was out of answers. I said, "My
wife, we were married, you know, seven
years, but I was away for five of those
years, 13 months on parole. Uh I said,
I'm going to lose the girl I did all
this for." She was only 26 years old,
you know, at that point. I said, "They
can't put me in the yard because I
walked away from the life. Everybody was
upset with me. Contract on my life
basically. My father had even, you know,
he didn't do the right thing with me all
the way. I still loved him. Um, and I
said, "And the government hates me." I
said, "I got no friends. I got nothing.
And I'm here maybe for the rest of my
life." Now, understand, I visited my dad
for 25 years in prison. I did eight
years on my own. I was 41 years old. I
said, "If I'm going to spend the rest of
my life in this hall, I don't even want
to live." I really felt that night that
I just wanted to lay my head on that cot
and not wake up. I'll tell you how bad
it was. I had at one time demeaned
people for being suicidal. I said,
"You're weak. How do you not face your
troubles?" I don't do that anymore. Now,
I wasn't suicidal. I wasn't that brave,
but I just wanted to lay down. It was If
you can ever if you can ever picture
being too painful to think about your
life, that's how I felt. And long story
short, you know, a prison guy had walked
by my cell and he looked in. He said,
"Franise, you don't look good. Are you
all right?" I said, "Get away from me,
man." I chased him. I said, "I don't
want to see any of you guys." And he
came back and he he pushed a Bible
through the slot on the door. And um it
started my journey. I would say that.
And for the next 29 months and seven
days, I studied every single faith. I
had my wife send me in books on every
faith. And if you say my prison Bible,
there's more of my notes. There's more
my notes on there than there is
scripture, I think, because I write on
everything. I like to learn. And I came
out of there a person of faith. How how
you said you studied a bunch of
different faiths, though. Yeah. How did
you know Christianity was your religion?
It's it was based upon evidence. You
know, I re I'm very into uh you know,
evidence. I really am. And proving my
faith and um it was the only one that
resonated with me. I found enough
evidence to support that Jesus
was crucified and rose from the dead. I
found enough evidence in prophecy that
was 100% accurate in predicting, you
know, things that happened in the New
Testament and things I believe that are
even occurring now. And then I I took a
sensible path to that because I studied,
you know, from the time I was a kid, my
father would say to me, the standard you
have to live up to in life, you have to
be a man's man. Walk down the street,
have integrity, treat women and children
the right way, be honest with people.
You know, might sound like, you know,
because my dad was a was a a gangster,
but that's how he held himself. And so,
you know, I heard the same thing in the
life. We're men of honor. We're men of
integrity. The same thing. So when I
started to study Jesus, I separated his
deity from his manhood because I wanted
to see what kind of guy he was. And I
concluded that he was the only perfect
man that ever walked the face of the
earth and any facet of his character. I
was really turned on by his persona. So
I came to this conclusion and this is
something that I think people should
understand. If you try to emulate, in my
view, the greatest person that ever
walked the face of the earth in every
facet of his character, well, throughout
your life, you're going to be a better
person and even though you fall short,
you're going to be better. Everybody
around you is going to benefit from you
being that type of person. And I said,
well, when I die, if for any reason I'm
wrong and he's not the savior of the
world and there is no eternity, well,
what did I have to lose? But throughout
my life, you know, I was dead anyway.
Throughout my life, I benefited and
everyone arounded me benefited. But
then, you know, there was enough
evidence for me to prove that Jesus is
our risen savior. And that's that's all
that matters. Proverbs
16:7. You have it on the merch. What
does it mean? And and and why that
verse? On that very bad night, um the
first book that I opened up, I didn't
know even know where to start to read
the Bible. But when I held it and I
opened it up, it it just opened up to
the book of Proverbs and I was really
turned on by Proverbs. Brilliant book. I
mean, Solomon was brilliant, you know,
unbelievable. So, I started to forget
some of the things and I was focusing on
the Proverbs and I came to this verse.
It was the first verse that really
struck me. It is, when a man's ways are
pleasing to the Lord, even his enemies
are at peace with him. Well, I had
nothing but enemies that night on both
sides of the law. And you know, it was
almost if I had been kidding myself. My
wife was a Christian and she was trying
to school me on it. And I was being very
polite to her because I respected her
position. She lived it, but I wasn't
buying into it. And so it was almost
that night if I looked at myself in the
mirror and said, "Who are you kidding?
You haven't changed anything. You're
still a mob guy." But then it was almost
as if I don't know, you know, you you
get I never had God speak to me. I never
seen him in a dream. I don't hear him
audibly. I don't have that gift. Some
people do. Maybe I don't. But it was
almost that night as something touched
my heart and said, "Well, maybe if you
did do the right thing and you did
follow me, I'll take care of your
enemies." And that thought came into my
head. And it started me on this little
journey to want to learn a little bit
more. And um sometimes, you know, you
can hear one thing that can resonate
with you in such a way that it can cause
you to want to learn more and that did
it for me. You're a father now. Seven
kids. And with those seven kids, you
probably had to tell them when they were
growing up a bit more about your story.
How did you kind of approach that
conversation telling them about your
past life? And what's the main lesson
that you hope they got away from your
story? Well, in my case, it was kind of
hard for them not to know it because I
was had a lot of media attention, so
they knew and they were affect affected
by it. Um, and they visited me in
prison, so they knew the whole deal. Um,
you know, I always say
this, kids, you have to give kids a
reason not to love their parents. They
want to love their parents. I mean, I
know in my own case with my dad, I
wanted to love him. No matter what
people said about him, what I read in
the newspaper, he was my dad and he was
good to me and I loved him. I didn't
care. So, I tried to be as honest as
possibly could with them without
revealing everything. I mean, I can tell
you this. We're sitting down here having
this conversation. I have never had this
conversation with my wife till this very
moment. She doesn't need to know certain
things. I mean, not that she hasn't
heard this a million times, but an
in-depth conversation about the 20 years
I've spent in that life. No, I've had a
little bit more conversation with my
boys. I have two boys. Not so much with
the girls.
Um, but you know, they see how I I am
with them. Um, and I think that's
enough. And I've tried to instill the
right values in them to the best I
could. And I've learned something with
kids. You can do everything. You have to
understand something. Because sometimes
my my son will do something and my wife
said, "Where did we go wrong?" And I
said, "We didn't go wrong." But
remember, they are their own person. At
some point in time, our kids are not
kids anymore. And they're going to make
their own decisions. they're going to
know the values we instilled with them.
They may reject them. Doesn't mean we
failed. And so I've come to that
conclusion, too, because you're your own
person ultimately. You're responsible
for your own life. I'll tell you another
thing that was very helpful to me. And I
tell this to young people all the time.
10 years old, my mother was very hard on
me, very, very strict on me. She didn't
spare the rod. She was very tough on me.
My father less so, but my mother rough.
So, I'm 10 years old and uh she had
admonished me for something. I don't
remember what it was. And I walked into
the living room of my house and my uncle
Joe was there. Now, my uncle Joe is a a
merchant marine, hard drinking, tough
guy. And I had a tear in my eye and uh I
walked in the room and he said, "What's
the matter with you?" I said, "Uncle
Joe, my mother again, you know, she's
doing it." He looked at me and he said,
"Do you have a dictionary in this
house?" And I said, "Yeah." He said, "Go
get it." I said, "What?" He said, "Just
go get it. Go get it." I bring it back.
He said, "You're gonna you know the
alphabet?" I said, "Yeah." He said, "You
know the letter S?" I said, "Yes." He
said, "Go there. Open that page." He
says, "I want you to look for the word
sympathy." And I looked for it. And he
says, "You see the definition?" He said,
"Yeah." He said, "Don't ever look for it
again.
Ever. Now go out
here." I never forgot that. Never ever
forgot that. So, here's my thing. I said
to myself, no matter what goes wrong in
my life, I'm to
blame. I don't care who screws me, I
should have known better. Why didn't I
look at this guy's character a little
bit more? How did I make that mistake? I
have found out when you hold yourself
responsible for anything that goes wrong
in your life, makes you a better person,
more
perceptive, and works. Now, I
interviewed a gentleman in Palm Beach
this past August, and uh he was a very
successful guy on Wall Street, managed
money for a lot of ultra-wealthy people
in New York City. And I asked him about
the greatest lesson that he learned
about entrepreneurship, I believe. And
he said that he ends up bringing it to
this. He said, "The most important
decision that you will ever make is
marrying the right woman." And he said
that, you know, and ironically, I
interviewed them. this was organically
and he was with his wife and it was
their I think 65th wedding anniversary
so they were you know much older in
their 80s and 90s and so um and he said
that most people find a woman who's part
of the problem I have one that's part of
the solution how important was that
decision and what was the impact that
that had on your life finding the right
woman brilliant statement by that
gentleman I can take it a step further
if I don't meet my
wife 1,000% I'm dead or in prison for
the rest of my
Not even a there's there's no other way.
And the reason being I can say this. The
mob life, the gang life, mafia, cousin,
evil lifestyles. Let me be clear. I'm
not calling the guys evil. I was one of
them. You know, there's an age-old
question. Why do good people do bad
things? Doesn't make them bad people.
There's reasons why people make mistakes
and do bad things. doesn't make them a
bad person in every case. But the life
is evil because I don't know any family
of any member of that life that hasn't
been totally devastated, including my
own. And not my wife and kids. I've been
able to spare them at that. But my
mother, 33 years without her husband,
because my father did 40 years in
prison. At the end of her life, her
relationship with my dad can only be
described as ugly. Why? Because she
blamed him, rightfully so, for
everything that went wrong. She didn't
put him in prison. This was his choice
to be in that life. Sister dies of an
overdose of drugs, 27 years old. My
brother, 30, 25 years a drug addict, put
us through hell. Me just trying to keep
him alive on the street. My younger
sister, 40 years old, dies at 40. She
was never mentally stable. The whole
family destroyed. And every family of
every member of that life goes through a
similar situation. So, it's a bad
lifestyle, not conducive to a good
family life. So, I meet this girl and I
fall in love with her. I'm a major
target of law enforcement. At that point
in time, I've already been indicted
seven times, went to trial five times,
been arrested 18 times, bullseye on my
back as big as any picture you got in
here. They were never going to let me go
ever. So, I meet this girl, I fall in
love with her, she's 20 years old. I
said, "Am I going to put her through
this? Doesn't make sense. Either I let
her go and stay with the life or I
choose her and get out of the life." So,
I chose her and everything that followed
was based upon my having a life with
her. And she has been my rock in every
way, shape, or form. And we'll we'll be
celebrating 40 years together this May.
And without her, she's made me a better
person, without a doubt, and a smarter
person. She made me look at things
differently. I wanted to uh it was
something I was curious about going a
little bit back to uh the old days. I
think it was noted that in 2002
um you had came out and talked about how
during the 1970s and 80s you were I
guess persuading New York Yankee
baseball players to I guess fix games
for betting purposes. What were those
conversations like with you and the New
York Yankee baseball players? I'm
curious about that. You you got it a
little bit wrong. I want to make it
clear. never implicated the Yankees cuz
I am a diehard Yankee fan. So, but let
me clarify that they tried me they tried
to get me I think it was 48 hours I
remember to uh to implicate some
Yankees. Okay. And I said get off of
this. Not going to happen. Um but here's
what we did do. Um I had a pretty big
gambling operation. When I say I, you
know, bookmakers on the street at that
time, you couldn't operate unless you
were involved with us because we
financed you and we collected for you.
So you needed us. So I had about 12
bookmakers working for me at the time,
working under me, and a lot of athletes
would go and gamble with them, you know,
and they're not supposed to, but they're
gambling with them. So I give you an
example. Bookmaker would come to me,
hey, so and so from the Mets, the Jets,
whatever, they're into me for 50 grand.
They haven't paid. What should I do? You
know, collect. I said, what are you
worried about? I said, what are you
doing? You're putting you an entry on a
piece of paper. Doesn't cost you a
penny. I said, "Let them get into you
for 250 grand and then bring them to me.
Get them in deep." Again, doesn't cost
you anything. Piece of paper. Get in 250
grand. Come to my office. Sit down. Hey,
you owe me a lot of money. Oh, I didn't
know it was your Well, now you know.
It's me. Uh, how you going to pay me?
Got to pay. Can't walk away. Oh, I don't
know. You got a rich uncle. What? Go rob
a bank. I don't care how you do it, but
bring me my money on Monday. You know
what? On second thought, now he's
scared. On second thought, I love your
team. You're a pretty good player. I
have a lot of respect for you. Here's
what I'm going to do. You don't have to
pay me all at once. You owe me 250. Pay
me 1% a week. You play on Sunday. When
do you get paid? You get paid Friday.
Monday morning, you bring in money in
cash. Okay. They want to do anything to
get out of the room. Okay, great. I
don't have to pay. But what happens?
They're gamblers. They go to another
gambler across town. I mean, another
bookmaker across town. They're getting
in more debt. So, now I bring the guy
back. Let's say he's uh he's a football
player. We'll go football. Stay away
from baseball. And um let's say he's a
he's a running back, right? Hey, let me
tell you how you're going to win. How
you going to pay me back? You don't have
to come up with any money, but here's
what you're going to do. You're a
running back. First three times you get
the ball, you put it on the ground.
First three times, put it on the ground.
I'll worry about it after that. Because
remember, it's never about winning or
losing. It's about the spread.
So, we know which way we got to go in a
case like that. You get a player working
with you for a couple of games, you make
a lot of money. And that happened quite
often, unfortunately,
because they gambled. And I hate to say
it, but many athletes are just bad
gamblers. I don't know if they're
emotional or whatever. They just don't
gamble well. So, you know, and look,
understand this. You got basketball, you
got five guys on the court, right? the
referee, he can call a foul every time
they go down a court the court or he
don't have to call a foul. So let's go
back where we don't implicate any
players. Let's say the Lakers are
playing whatever team. Lakers are
favored to win by 10. Kobe Bryant is
there right time. So how do you how do
you manipulate the spread? How do you do
it? You give Kobe three extra minutes,
five extra minutes on the bench. Call a
few extra fouls on him. He sits down for
a while. Now you manipulate the spread.
Point to two, three, you win. you got a
referee going along with you for the
season, you're going to make a lot of
money. A lot of money. So, you didn't
have to threaten them. You know, a lot
of the threats were kind of they're
overt, you know. I mean, they didn't
know it. Um, but you get them to work
with you and they cause their own
problem by getting it to debt. Do you
think that's still going on today?
It's not as much on the pro level
because these guys are making an obscene
amount of money. Let's face it, they can
cover their bets. You know, I once uh I
had a thing with Michael Jordan. I can
tell you stuff about Michael cuz I
worked at the NBA, but uh we won't get
into that. But um I used to say he was a
he was a degenerate gambler. The guy
gambled on anything. He had a gambling
problem. But then I heard him on that
documentary that he did and he said, "I
I I don't have a gambling problem." He
said, "I have a competition problem."
And in Michael's case, that's true
because his gambling doesn't cause him
any problems. He's got enough money to
pay his debt. So, it's him. It's like a
harmful a harmless activity. He's right.
But most people are not in that
position. But pro players now, they can
support their debts. College, different
story. A lot of these kids are in
trouble and it's because of access. Now,
they can gamble on their phone and they
get in a lot of trouble. And I've I've
had, you know, enough uh I've done over
300 division one and division two
schools. And you want to hear this?
Every school I went to, every single
school, over 300. When I leave the
school, and I speak to all the student
athletes, you know, male, female, all
sports. You got a gambling issue or you
know somebody that does, if it's
impacting you, email me. I don't work
for the school. I don't tell anybody.
It's between you and I. Don't even give
me your name. By the time I go tell back
to my hotel room, I have emails from
students that are having a gambling
problem. That's how serious it could be.
You were extremely diversified. I mean,
in in a bunch of unique businesses,
right? Obviously, you had the gambling
operation. You were in uh you know, the
gasoline with the Russians. You were in
film. You had car dealerships. What are
your thoughts on diversification for
entrepreneurs? It's a big debate in
today's world whether people should just
go deep on one thing or whether they
should diversify. Tell me about how you
feel about divers diversification. It's
all according to your talent level. You
know, if you can handle I mean I'm
entrepreneurial and that I can get
involved in a lot of different things.
As a matter of fact, sometimes it's at
this point in my life I shouldn't
because I don't want to spend that kind
of time. But if I was your age and I was
younger, forget it. You bring me
something I like it. I'm into it and I'm
working it, too. I mean, I work seven
days a week if I had to. Um, so if you
can handle it, if it's within you to
handle it and you you you have that
capability, I don't see anything wrong
with it. And and you talked right one
thing that you advocated here and I know
that we spoke earlier about how
important it was like putting the right
people in places. When you have all
these kind of different operations and
businesses going on, how are you
ensuring that all of them are staying on
top of things? So, is it just you're
instilling the principles in all these
people or how are you able to balance
all these different things going on cuz
you know you can't be in 150 places at
one time but other people can. I agree.
Well, you have to take what you're able
to handle but you can't there's no
absentee management in in my view. I had
to be on top. People had to know that
I'm paying attention and so I never went
outside of that. I wouldn't take on
something I knew I couldn't give my time
to. That was always the key to me. Can I
get involved in this timewise? Am I able
to do it? And if I thought I could and
it was worth it, then I would do it.
Yeah. Time management. You know, you
talk about I had two car agencies. I
bought a a Mazda agency. When you
couldn't give a Mazda away, the Wankle
engines were exploding. You couldn't
give them away. I took it from a guy
that was ready to close his doors. And I
built that into the biggest agency on
the Northeast in the Northeast. And I
was your age. And the way I did it, it
was just diver. I figured out new things
to do until that I knew the car would
come back. Mazda's not going out of
business. They're going to figure out
the problem. So, I did things to
compensate to bring income in until that
came back. And um but again, I mean, I
worked it. I worked my butt off, you
know, to do it. But we did it. Yeah. One
of the things I'm really curious about
is early on in your career within the
mafia, you're probably getting exposed
to a whole new way of life. But I'm
wondering, is there was there a certain
moment or maybe deal that went south or
just, you know, interaction where you
were like, "Wow, this is uh this is not
a game. This is real life."
Well, there's a couple of those, but you
know, business-wise, I learned something
right away. You know, how to deal with
the hierarchy of the mob. I'll tell you
what happened. Somebody, a guy under me,
um, he hijacked a load of meat. Meat,
right? And he brought it to me. And
there's a saying in that life, you have
to put everything on record. Anything
that's done on the street, you have to
put it on record with your boss to let
him know that this is going on. They do
it for two reasons. The first reason is
in case somebody challenges you from
within the family or another family,
it's on record. We know about this so we
can protect you. If it's not on record,
you're going to lose. Secondly, they
want to know what you're doing. This is
the way for them to keep tabs on you.
So, this guy brings me a load of meat
and I bring it into my boss at the time.
He was my captain. I was a soldier. And
I said, uh, you know, this is what I
got. I was a recruit. I wasn't even a
soldier. And, uh, I said, I'm going to
sell it and I'll bring it to the I'll
bring it to you. So, I sell it. I think
I got like uh almost $7,000 for it. So,
I hand him the whole 7,000. Two days
later, he hands me back 600 bucks.
I said, "Six bucks. I just bought you
seven grand. That's all I get out of
this." So immediately, the next time I
went to visit my dad, I said, "Hey, Dad,
what's going on here?" You know, this
how this works? You know, I'm new. I'm a
recruit. And he says, "From now on," he
says, "nything you get on the street,
put it on record, but you give them 25%
of anything that you you give it to
them. You don't let them you don't give
them the money and let them take it from
give you what they want to give you."
So, I mean, that was eye opening as far
as business was concerned. And so my
formula on the street was whatever I do,
you get 25% of. If you're my partner,
that's a different thing. Then we'll
work it out. But if I bring a score, I
bring something in, you got 25%. That's
it. And so I figured that out early on.
Otherwise, you know, they take advantage
of you. It's just the way it goes. So,
um, I don't know if I answered your
question, but hopefully it was at least
partially that did. Yeah.
I mean, I'm just gonna say this was
absolutely incredible. We got two last
questions for you. What's one guiding
principle you could give to any
20-year-old watching this right now?
Your your best advice to a 20-year-old
starting out in the real world today.
Give them one more nugget, piece of
advice, something to stick with them to
take on for the rest of their lives.
Well, again, it's it's multifaceted with
me. You know, take responsibility for
everything. Don't rely or put the blame
the way I I one of my pet peeves is when
people make a mistake and don't take
responsibility for it because we all
make mistakes. I still make them and I
gladly take responsibility for them.
That's number one. Number two, again,
surround yourself with the right people.
You are who you hang out with. People
will influence you. No matter how strong
you think you are, you must you are
judged by who you hang with. People are
going to judge you. Even if it's if it's
not a proper judgment, they're going to
judge you by the people you hang out
with. And then, of course,
accountability. Accountability is
everything in life. Who you are
accountable to is going to direct the
path that you want. So, get that
straight. get the right person. For me,
it's God first, family second, and then
the people that rely on you and do
business with you. Uh, and don't burn
bridges. Don't burn bridges, no matter
what you think. I mean, it's okay to cut
somebody out of your life if they're no
good, but don't burn bridges because
they come in useful at some point in
your life if you have that
entrepreneurial spirit about you. And,
you know, another thing I told people,
not everybody is cut out to be a
business person. You know, some people
are just better at work. If that's your
deal in life, go for it. There's nothing
to be ashamed of. If you're a better
worker than you are, a business person
or a boss or a leader, go for it because
we need workers. I wouldn't have what I
have if I had didn't have skilled people
working under me. So, there's nothing
wrong with that. And we usually like to
cap our podcasts off, you know, we ask a
lot of very successful and storied
people on our channel uh how they made
their success and we see those clues
left in our interviews. And so I just
wanted to ask you how do you want to be
remembered? What legacy do you want to
leave behind for everybody watching
right now? You know very important for
me right now I I've realized one thing
in life is that we are losing a sense of
community in the world. It might be
because of social media might be because
people don't have to get out in the
world as much. So I recently started a
platform uh that's basically a community
where people have resources that we put
in there. how to negotiate, how to be a
leader, how to be a good boss. We do
Bible studies in there to bring people
together. We have entrepreneurs and we
have workers working together uh in a
community environment to benefit one
another. And I'm very active in that
community because I want people to know
I didn't just create this. I'm not just
a name on the brand. I'm part of it
because I want to instill the way I grew
up. It was always a sense of community,
a sense of family that we're lacking. I
believe the greatest problem or
challenge we face in this country now,
the root problem of so many issues is
the breakup of the family and the
breakup of the community. And if we can
bring that back, it's important. So,
I've started a community if you don't
mind. It's
michaelfran.com/family. I know you have
one too. I'm not sure what you're into,
but I think these platforms are
tremendously beneficial when people can
get together for a common interest and
work together for the for the benefit of
everyone. Um, and that's that's going to
be my legacy if it if it goes according
to plan. It's that I brought people
together and as a result of bringing
them together, we effectuated change in
the right way. I love it. In a positive
way. Michael, this was incredible. Thank
you so much for having us out to your
home out here in Newport Beach. And
where can everybody find you on social
media? We'll put the links down in the
description as well. But yeah, it's uh
just um I'm on every platform. I believe
it's Michael Franis. My team know I hope
I'm getting it right. Where can where
can I get myself a bottle of these if I
want one of those? Well, we're in uh you
know about nine states right now. We're
in all the big store. We're in Ralphs.
We're in Costco. We're in Kroger. We're
in Total Wines. We're everywhere now.
And what's the name of the It's frine.
Frany's wine. FrancisWine. You could
also go to
frisswine.com. We're direct to consumer
also. And uh pizza. We have pizza
vending machines. Something that is
pretty innovative. But I promise you
this, call slices, the pizza coming out
of that machine is as good as it is
coming out of the oven. That's the
formula. Wow. I love it. Otherwise, I'm
Italian. I wouldn't have it. But it's
great. Guys, thank you so much for
tuning in. This was an incredible
episode uh with Michael Friends, one of
my favorites that I've ever done. This
was a treat getting to come out here and
interview you in in Newport Beach. But I
need you guys to like, subscribe for
incredible content, interviews with the
most successful people in the entire
world. We're going all over the world
for you guys. Uh, and we're going to put
links down to your community as well as
our community as well, the school of
mentors, the one of the biggest
communities in the entire world, uh,
where we bring in the multi-millionaires
and billionaires that we interview to
mentor all of the members in there. Uh,
so check out the communities, become a
member of of those today, and we can't
wait to see you guys in the next
episode. We'll see you guys soon. If I
can add one thing, I have to say this.
This is why I surround myself with young
people because this was one of the most
innovative interviews that I've ever
done. And I really mean that. And you
guys were great. So, thank you for so
much. Thank you so much.