Why do you think most people don't ever
reach financial freedom in their lives?
This is where people get it so wrong.
One of the secrets to success is Cody
Sanchez. She's an entrepreneur who's
invested in over 100 companies, turning
over millions a year. After spending 15
years on Wall Street, she's now sharing
her secrets to the world
on how to make money. I think that is
the question everyone's asking
themselves. I think every human should
understand the language of money. It's
not that complex. We just make it sound
complex because the less people speak
our language, the more we can charge
them. For the first time in 25 years
the richest 1%
will control more than half of the
world's wealth by next year.
The gap is huge. This is why only one in
10 people dies wealthy. If you
understand the language, you can become
an expert in it, and expertise leads to
a bunch of cash.
But what have you come to learn about
what holds us back in that moment?
The people who love you, they want
what's best for them, which is that
you're safe, you're secure, everything's
okay. My loved ones were super
supportive, but they were always saying
things like, "Is the grass always
greener, Cody?" And so, we've become a
generation of vitamin D deficient,
alternative milk-drinking softies. So, I
had a job I shouldn't have been at, a
guy I shouldn't have been with, in a
place I shouldn't live. But I was too
scared. I'm not one of those
entrepreneurs who just burn the bridges,
I'll sleep on the couch. And so, I
needed something where I could
stair-step my way out of a corporate
job. And then I realized this could be
way bigger than what anybody else could
pay me.
If we zoom in on that moment, what would
you recommend my first step be, Cody?
First, you have to
Before this episode starts, I have a
small favor to ask from you. 2 months
ago, 74% of people that watch this
channel didn't subscribe. We're now down
to 69%.
My goal is 50%. So, if you've ever liked
any of the videos we've posted, if you
like this channel, can you do me a quick
favor and hit the subscribe button? It
helps this channel more than you know,
and the bigger the channel gets, as
you've seen, the bigger the guest get.
Thank you, and enjoy this episode.
Cody,
who are you speaking to and what is the
message that you're trying to send them?
I think the every man and woman.
Maybe people like you and I when we were
younger, before we had any zeros or
businesses.
And the message the message is very
simple. It's that
I think by and large, and maybe they
could feel this inside them, too, we've
slowly gone from a nation of owners or a
country of owners or a world of owners
to uh a nation of renters or serfs, in
another word.
And the idea is, what if we could take
that back?
And that's the whole premise of
everything we do is getting people into
the owner's chair, into ownership, as
opposed
to letting other people be the
architects of their lives. And it took
me way too long to do that, and so I'm
hoping that it will take other people
less time if we share.
Give me the persona then of someone that
you believe will find value in this
conversation. Like, where are they are
they in their life? What are they
thinking day-to-day? Um what are their
aspirations? Yeah, I I think there's
sort of three humans that I picture.
There's one that I call Working John.
And um and he is basically, or she, but
I just have a male avatar for this one,
is sitting in a job right now that they
don't really like, doing things they
don't want to do, for people they don't
like, and building their dream and their
castle.
And they're mad about it. Although, your
choice to be there, but they're mad
about that decision. And they want to
they want a way out, but they have
either golden handcuffs where they make
too much money or they have
responsibility, bills that have to be
paid. And so they don't really feel like
they have a solution except going to
find like the next
best, but kind of still worst, company.
And then the second avatar is there's an
there's an aging population that by and
large in the workforce, we say, "Uh,
you're over 50 or 60? Like, you're not
getting as many job looks as you were
before." But now we live until we're 90.
So, what are they supposed to do for 30,
40 years?
And I think their evolution can be also
buying a business, taking over
something, becoming an owner in maybe
something not aggressive as aggressive
as they were before. And then I think
the the third avatar are humans
who kind of got sold pipe dreams over
the last couple years. Like, "If I buy
472 houses that pay me 100 bucks a a
month profit, uh, I'll finally become
financially free." Well, it takes a lot
of cash to do that. Or, you know, if I
have NFTs on the side, or if I go into
the stock market on the side, all of
which aren't rigged games exactly, but
are meant to just beat inflation.
And so that third group of people might
like what they're doing. They just need
they need something else on the side
that's a little bit of a safety net cuz
I don't think our safety nets will be
around by the time we need them.
And you've been through your own journey
from the corporate world to working in
finance, working as a journalist, where
you are now. Which one of those avatars
did you represent? Well, I was
definitely a working John. So, that
would have been the first one. When I
was in finance, I was doing well, but I
definitely felt trapped. I mean,
I was all those things. I was
should have been happy and content with
where I was, but felt
like the 60-hour work weeks were too
much, and I didn't really like the
culture of the company that I was
working for.
Um, I had a lot of respect for the CEO,
but I didn't really fit. And uh but I
was too scared. I'm like a little bit of
a scaredy-cat. I'm not one of those
entrepreneurs like our mutual friend
Alex who just was like, "I'll burn the
bridges. I'll sleep on the couch, you
know, I'll I'll sell it all." It's just
not me. It's too scary. And so I needed
something where I could have like a soft
landing. I could stair-step my way out
of a corporate job. So, I started buying
these small businesses with the idea
that maybe one day they could just meet
meet my costs. And then I realized, oh
god, I'm thinking so small. This could
be way bigger than what anybody else
could pay me. But I was a working job,
for sure.
We zoom in on that moment cuz I think
most people listening to this now can
can relate to that moment of
maybe hearing you speak and hearing your
content online or hearing an Alex
Hermosi or whatever, hearing Gary
Vaynerchuk, whoever it might be,
talk about starting that business,
pursuing that side hustle, but there's
this psychological
barrier to overcome, which most of us
can't overcome. We we call it fear. We
say, you know, that I'm waiting for the
perfect time. I don't have the
confidence. If you zoom in on that, now
you've started this new journey in your
life where you're creating content and
you're advising people on how they can
pursue the paths that you've pursued it
yourself. What have you come to learn
about what holds us back in that moment?
And the and the maybe the falseness of
the stories we tell ourselves. You you
described it as being a scaredy-cat.
Yeah.
I
at least for myself, what I'll say is,
you know, daughter of immigrants, um,
who thought that what I had achieved was
the pinnacle, you know?
People that I love more than anybody in
the world, and maybe that's similar for
a lot of people listening, the people
who love you, they want what's best for
them, typically, which is that you're
safe, you're secure, everything's okay.
They don't really want what's {quote}
best for you because that's actually the
scary thing. Real growth happens when
you take huge risks and you potentially
fail and you realize that you're not
going to die.
And so I realized that my loved ones
were some of the reasons that were
actually holding me back. Um,
super supportive, but they were always
saying things like, is the grass always
greener, Cody? You know, what about this
next thing? Is that really going to make
you happy? You know, are you sure it's
not you? Is it them?
And in some cases they're right. I just
have that
that ridiculous urge to keep growing and
doing more. But that that made me jump
from 1 2 3 4 5 five finance companies in
like 10 years or something like that
because I thought it was each it was the
individual company and I didn't realize
oh no, I'm just like unemployable. I
want to work for myself. I'm not going
to be great at being at somebody else's
employee.
Um but it was the stories that I heard
again and again from my family because
they wanted to keep me safe. Very kind,
but not right for me.
So in your life there there comes a
moment where you make this kind of
peculiar decision. When I say peculiar
because most people don't make the
decision to
um start off-ramping from the corporate
world essentially. Yeah. You you buy
your first business.
Right? So you're you're in a job. Yeah.
And you while you're in the job you
decide to buy a business. Yeah. Did you
have loads of cash when you did that?
No. No. No. In fact And why did you do
it? What what was the what was the
thought process that made you go do you
know what? That's a good idea. I think
it's usually triggered from from some
sort of pain. Like at that time
I was was fighting a little bit with the
CEO of the company that I was working in
and they really wanted me to
they wanted me to run this business that
I'd taken from zero to a couple billion
in assets under management. And they
wanted me to continue running it, but I
started getting pressed and stuff
started happening because we had had
this growth and they wanted me to do it
really quietly. And um not as much the
CEO, but some of the other managing
directors. I was by far the youngest. I
was the only female.
And um you know
that company was wild, but they
basically in many ways were like
um you need to do it our way. And I was
like, well, your way didn't get you to
this couple billion dollars under
management. Works great for you guys
over here, but it didn't over there. So
no, I'm going to run the business this
way. And uh and so we were kind of
arguing a little bit and I think I saw
the writing on the wall that it wasn't
my casino. They weren't my chips. I was
working for somebody else. And at the
end of the day, they were writing the
rules, as is fair. It was their
business. And I knew that at some point
I was either going to get pushed out or
leave.
And so at that point, I started buying
these businesses on the side because I
wasn't sure I wanted to work for
somebody ever again.
I'm I'm fascinated by the first step
people take because the first step seems
to be the hardest.
Mhm. That first step to buying that
first business and
you're stepping out into uncertainty and
the unknown there. And that's really
like that.
You know, if I could give one thing to
the audience is that have listened to me
for the last 10 years on social media
and on this podcast, it would just be
the answer to taking that first step.
Mhm. Like out into like you did at 29,
30 to buy that first business. Talk me
Talk to me about specifically that first
one. What were you looking for? Yep.
What was your thesis?
And
um
I guess how did you learn? How did you
learn about buying
as you call them boring businesses?
Yeah. Well, I had a benefit, which is as
a journalist, I sort of infiltrated
finance. I'm not technically as
intelligent uh you know, I'm not as I'm
not a financial modeling guru. I'm not a
lot of things that people are in
finance. But I'm pretty decent at asking
questions and then figuring out who are
the right people that could get me the
answers. And so what I realized pretty
quickly is we were doing a bunch of
deals. You know, I was doing deals that
were tens of millions, hundreds of
millions, and billion-dollar deals.
And I don't know why it took me so long,
but I realized there's no difference
like materially between a
billion-dollar, a
hundred-million-dollar, a
ten-million-dollar deal, and a
one-million-dollar deal. And if that's
the case, then I bet if I have a couple
hundred thousand or ten thousand
dollars, I could do a much smaller deal.
Wouldn't I be able to do the exact same
thing? So I saw behind the curtain,
uh you know, like at The Wizard of Oz
and realized that the wizard was
actually pretty short.
And because I saw that, then I just
said, "Well, now we just work
backwards." And just like you would buy,
you know, a hundred-million-dollar condo
condo unit or, you know, condo building,
you could see how you could go all the
way back and buy your first studio,
right? It's the same thing with
businesses. It's just stair-stepping
real estate. And so,
I, at the time, my biggest constraint
was not knowledge. I knew how to do
deals. It was time. You know, I was
working 60-70 hours a week. And so,
one of the first deals I did was a
laundromat deal uh because I figured,
well, you don't need somebody to run it
full-time, and it was a 100K
transaction, and so that wouldn't
bankrupt me. And, you know, I could buy
a a little business like this, and that
business could keep running even while I
wasn't there, and I could have an
operator that could probably help me
with anything that went sideways. Where
did you find a laundromat to buy for
100K? Was that website? Did you know the
guy or woman?
No, no the guy. So, basically, what
happened for my first deals, I didn't
have a framework. So, it was just, hey,
I do these really big deals, could I do
a smaller deal? And if I could do a
smaller deal, what would be the easiest
small deal to do that would be the least
risk? And so, at the time, I knew a guy
that was running a couple of
laundromats. So, I basically said to
him, "Hey, if I find one for you, will
you help me operate it?" And he knew how
to do that. So, the very first one we
had was in California. And that's one of
the secrets to this is two things.
First, you have to learn how to do
deals, which is not really that complex.
We just make it sound complex in finance
because financial lingo is like the moat
around how we make money, right? The
less people speak our language, the more
we can charge them, which is the secret.
And then the second aspect was how to
run a laundromat, right? Like, I don't
know, machine breaks, what am I going to
do? And so, then I had this guy who knew
how to run these, and I could just find
a deal for him, close the deal for him,
and be the cash for him. Why did they
sell to you?
Old, you know, these are 68-year-old
owners of a business that have been
running this laundromat plus a bunch of
other small businesses in the vicinity
for 20-30 years.
And so, can you imagine running your
podcast for 30 years? It'd probably be
fun, but by the end you might be open to
selling. Now, imagine you had a
laundromat for 30 years. You know,
you're dealing with broken machines or
there's somebody who's homeless messing
around with some stuff. But at a certain
point, you don't even want to continue
with a profitable business. And this is
where people get it so wrong.
All the time on the internet, people
love to tell me "No way would anybody
sell a business. That business made
$67,000 in profit. So, I bought it for
100k a year."
Did 67,000. And people on the internet
do one of two things to that. They go,
"No [ __ ] way, it didn't happen."
And why would somebody sell? And like,
did you give them a bad deal?
And the second
uh group of people go, "That's a
terrible deal. I'd never do that deal
because you don't have enough profit in
that for that to be a business not a
job."
So, those are the two two things. And to
the first one I'd say, in the US right
now, there are tens of millions of small
businesses for sale that will never
sell.
And and I tell a story about my Uncle Eb
who had a small business that was
exactly that.
Um that he closed down, which by the way
cost you money
as opposed to selling, because he had no
idea his business was sellable.
Um like many businesses that I had
before I did this, I shut down instead
of selling them. I didn't even realize
that even though I was in finance. And
then to the second group I'd say, you
start with a small business that
probably isn't the greatest business for
you to own long-term, but businesses are
like real estate. You can turn around
and sell them after you get in the game.
But I think of these businesses, I call
them gateway drug businesses. They're
they're the Once you learn how to do a
deal, you'll you'll never see the world
the same again. It will change your
entire perspective on everything. You
will walk in everywhere and you will
realize that business
is full of masochists like you and me
who do this despite it being awful many
times, but we love it in some way. But
at some point, we're going to want to
sell our thing and move on to the next.
And so, everywhere around you right now,
wherever you are, somebody sitting next
to you wants to sell their business. And
what if you could figure out how to buy
that business, put in an operator in it,
and then do it again and again and
again? And that's the only difference
between you and Warren Buffett or
Blackstone or these big huge companies.
Is it important to have competence in
the area in the industry that you're
trying to
buy these small businesses in in your
point of view? Not really, no.
Not at all. But it helps, right? Oh, of
course it helps. Um
More important than anything is, it's
sort of like real estate, it's really
about the deal. Can you understand, can
you read a balance sheet? Can you
understand profit and loss, which is not
that difficult to understand? And then,
can you figure out how to get to the
person that can get you answers? So for
instance, I didn't know anything about
laundromats, but I knew a guy who knew
laundromats.
Um often what I tell people these days
is I'm a I'm more old school, like I
would go knock on doors and I would
shake business owners' hands, but uh
you could also go to Reddit where there
are uh platforms with 100,000
electricians on them. And so if you
wanted to buy an HVAC company, which was
which is like heating, uh air
conditioning, and and often electric
electricity, um I would go on there and
I would try to find electricians in my
local area and I would ask them
questions and I would pay them for an
hour consult to figure out how to run
this business. I think we forget in this
day and age how easy it is to get the
information that we want. And so we
listen to the fear of the fact that we
don't know what we're doing. And I
actually think that's irrational. Uh I
think it's really easy for somebody to
tell you why things won't work. It's
actually quite hard to convince somebody
that they're capable of doing something.
What if I don't have 100k? You had 100k,
right?
Yeah.
Say I'm working a job, I've saved up
only $5,000. Yeah.
Well, I've bought a business for $3,000.
I've bought a business for $8,000, and
I've bought many many many businesses
for $0.
And and I'm not saying this in a way
that's click-baity. Will you go out
right now talk to somebody tomorrow and
be able to buy a business for zero
dollars? Like you're going to need to do
a little work. Um Just on the
structuring of the deal, right?
Just on the structuring of the deal.
So they get paid on performance.
Exactly. Or they get paid on what's
called seller financing. So these, you
know, you can go and most businesses,
most small businesses below $10 million
in revenue,
60% of them sell with some component of
seller financing, which just means if,
let's say, you know, somebody manages
your property here. Let's say that that
property manager makes 100k a year
profit. They want to sell their
business. You're a terrible tenant they
can't handle it anymore.
And they sell that business, they want
to sell that business typically for two
to five x profit. That's what these
small businesses go for.
And
the the typically there aren't enough
buyers. Like there's not a bunch of
people running around trying to buy
property management companies. So what
do they do instead? Well, you would come
to them and say, "All right, I'll buy
out your property management company,
but
you're going to be my loan. I'm going to
pay you a percent interest rate, plus
I'm going to defer your tax burden so
you pay less in taxes. Nobody likes
that. And and I'm going to buy the
business by giving you $300,000
with
uh you know, over five years, right? So
I'm going to keep a percentage of the
profits and I'm going to give the rest
to you. And it's not really that
complex. It's really what happened in
real estate before we had Zillow and
Redfin and all of these sites that made
it super normalized to sell real estate.
The as you said a second ago, the real
key here is knowing the art of the
possible as it relates to deals. The way
you construct your deal so that
um you win. Yeah, 100%.
Basically. Well, and and the I think the
truth of deal making that people forget
about is that it is one of the very few
things where it's never a zero-sum game.
So if I go to sell a stock, I hope that
when I sold the stock, I sold it the
right time and you bought it the wrong
time, right? Like that's what we hope.
And buying and selling small businesses,
that doesn't have to be the case. You
know, I could buy I could sell my
property management company to you. You
could pay me 3x profits and I could say,
"But, if the company increases revenue
by X amount, which I think it will with
these tweaks and I kind of help you a
little bit, how about you pay me 400,000
instead of 300,000?" And you would go,
"Great. If you hit those metrics, no
problem. That'd be an awesome deal for
me." So, there's plenty of ways to make
sure it's a win-win. But, to your point,
this is why people are poor because
nobody teaches us the language of deals.
And if somebody taught us not how to
negotiate our salary, that's fine, but
how to negotiate for equity and
ownership, the world would the whole
look a whole lot different. But, that's
not in
the big picture's incentive. It's really
good for the little guy, not so good for
the big guy.
The other thing when you're approaching
a business and trying to get them to
knowing this how to structure deal is
one thing, but then there's an element
of persuasion and saleswomanship.
Yeah.
involved in this.
How important is is learning to sell and
how how can we be be better sales people
in your view? What is the key to being a
great sales person? Cuz you must be to
be buying businesses. You must be able
to figure out what someone wants and
present it to them.
I truly believe that sales
is a fallacy. I don't think sales
exists. I think you find people who are
already predisposed to want what you are
{quote unquote} selling.
And I learned that very early on from
one of my mentors actually at Goldman.
That you don't sell anybody on anything.
You're never going to change somebody's
mind and if you think I'm wrong, go try
to convince a Republican to become a
Democrat, right? Or a Tory to become I
don't know what's the other side.
Labour.
Okay.
Uh it doesn't really go very well
usually. And so, um my belief is
actually what you're looking for is just
who are the people who are you're you're
finding trigger moments. Like
if I was to have a conversation with
Stephen about selling your business, I
would try I would be asking questions
like, you know,
"How's it going running Wow, 20 years?
That's a long time." If If their answer
is, "Fucking love this business. I am
never selling. This is amazing." You're
like, "Cool. Awesome. No problem. So
lovely meet you meeting you." But if you
meet the person that's like,
"Yeah, I'm ready. I'm ready to retire.
I've got this vision of a ranch in my
head out in the countryside and, you
know, but I my kid doesn't want to take
over the business." You're not You're
not going to get them to think something
different. You're purely discovering
what they truly feel. And then you are
going to be the person that enables them
to have a retirement in a way that no
government can. Like you are the
retirement plan. And so, that's maybe
what you need to learn is just curiosity
for another human. And then you need to
understand what a what a motivated
seller looks like. And a motivated
seller looks like somebody who's ready
for their next adventure, whatever that
may be. And if you can find those two
things, then you find the people that
actually, yes, they want what you're
selling. Now, what you actually do have
to convince somebody of, and I hope
you're true about it, is that
you are going to be a good shepherd. If
you are going to be their retirement
plan, you better not go broke, right?
You better actually be able to take this
business and run with it. And so, that
is one part where you have to convince.
Like, "Why should I sell this business
to you, Steven? How are you going to
take care of my business?"
And that part really again comes down to
curiosity, making sure that you're
setting yourself up and the seller for
success. Not rocket science.
If I I'm going to play um
I'm going to play the role of a
25-year-old.
Okay. I'm working in a job. I'm I've got
a little bit of disposal in income, but
not a ton. Yeah. I'm listening to you,
Cody, and I'm going,
"I want some of that. You've got a
holding company, right?" Yeah. "You got
a fund as well?" Yeah. How much roughly
the revenue of the holding company?
Roughly?
70 million. 70 million. So, your holding
company does about 70 million revenue.
You've got a fund as well. Yep. How
big's the fund? Small, 10. Okay. So, 80
million combined.
Um I want to get to where you you are.
But I'm currently working in a job. I'm
25 years old. I've got, I don't know,
$7,000 in the bank, 7,000 pounds in the
bank, whatever.
What would you recommend my first step
be, Cody? How do I get out of this job?
Yeah. Well, the first step
if you if you're going to do it like a
pro, I'd say this, which is
I'm not a pro.
you do for a living. I do
content. Perfect. So, if you do content
for a living, what I'd say is don't buy
a laundromat. I talk about laundromats.
I actually need to change that. I need
to like tell somebody I bought a
different first business because it's a
terrible business to buy. It just was my
first one and it's very easy to
understand. So, I'm like, if you can't
understand quarter, machine, clothes,
clean, don't buy a business, any
business. Just forget you heard me talk
about anything. And so, that's why I
talk about laundromats.
But if I was going to do it the pro way,
I would say you should use your unfair
advantage. And if you're in the content
business, don't buy a boring business in
the traditional sense. Look around you.
I It's something I call my personal P&L
review. So, I'd basically look at
what do I spend money on already? If
you're in content, you probably spend
money on ad purchasing, right? You
probably spend money on video
production. You probably spend money on
maybe you rent a a set space. Um do you
have all these expenses around you? And
what if you could turn one or two of
those expenses into an asset, not a
liability? Thing that makes you money,
not a thing that costs you money. And
so, you know, I did a deal back when I
was doing more video production in my
last company where I bought a podcast
and video production company. And I did
that deal basically for $0. I think I
put $10,000 down for that deal that
ended up doing about 300, 400,000
dollars a year because I just said, I
know like five or six other people that
could use your service. I'm going to
like double your revenue by introducing
you to these people. And I pay you,
let's say, $3,000 a month now. What if
we're just going to wipe that out if I
can hire these other people and you're
going to give me 25% of the company or
whatever percentage it was. That's what
I would do if I was you. So, if you're
young and hungry, look around you and
see what you pay for and what you
currently utilize already and then try
to get a percentage of that business if
not buying the whole thing.
And that's sort of the pro way to do it
as opposed to car wash, need to go
learn, totally different market. You can
do the second. It's just a little bit
riskier.
So, I'm I'm working in content, 25 years
old, $7,000 in the bank. Um I realize
what you've just said and I go, you
know, I'm a marketing agency. We book a
lot of studios.
Yeah. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to approach a studio space,
try and do a deal with them,
and then I'm going to send clients their
way.
Yeah. You could totally do that. That'd
be a sweat equity deal or a rev equity
deal, revenue equity deal.
So, for a studio space,
I mean, I think the the probably pro way
to do that um would be one, you'd
approach them and you'd kind of get an
understanding for their business. You'd
be like, how much revenue do you make?
Like, how big is this? You'd figure out
if you were material to their business.
So, me doing 3K a year with my video
production guy, I was material to his
business. He was only doing, I don't
know, you know, $100,000 a year or
something like that.
And so, if my 3K went away, that was
you know, that's like uh 20% of his
business right there over a yearly
basis. So, if you go to a studio
production company and they're like,
yeah, we're doing $7 million a year and
you're paying them 3K, you're like, all
right, cool. Anyway, nice to chat with
you. Or you could say,
you know, who's the owner? How long
you've been doing this? And you could
dive into it. And the other side of the
coin is you might find out that the
owner is 70, and you become buds with
the owner. And the owner loves when you
come in cuz you're kind of like young,
and you learn about what he does. And
then you ask who's going to take over
the business. And then you might say,
"Hey, you know, I do this other thing,
but I would love to sort of be an
apprentice to you in a way, and
potentially buy your business using
future profits, and you can sort of like
stay on, and we can stair-step our way
into this. But would you be open to
that? Like leaving your legacy to
somebody like me?"
And so you could do it that way, too.
But I think it is like it goes back to
kind of the the smart question you
asked, which is like the two avatars are
who's listening to this right now, and
then that's the same question to the
people listening that you're going to
ask the owner. What sort of avatar is
the owner? And how can you become the
solution to what that avatar is looking
for? How can you become the son to the
father, you know? How can you become the
buyer to a really anxious seller?
Um
And then you can get your deal done.
Why do you think most people
don't ever reach financial freedom in
their lives? Do you think it's a psych-
psychology thing, a mindset thing?
Obviously, let's take, you know, the
very practical
elements out of the equation. So, you
know, severe hardship, poverty, all of
those kinds of things. But people that
are in that sort of middle layer that
are comfortable, why do they why do they
never some of those people never really
reach a point of financial freedom?
I think
humans
defer to the paths they've seen
before them. I think so often
we follow in our fathers' or our
mothers' footsteps.
And that's why I think the internet's
really powerful as you have an
opportunity to now choose the family
footsteps you want to follow into.
Um so one I I I used to think it was
just a knowledge gap,
but then I I went to this event, um and
I was talking to my friend about it, and
she
uh said that the facilitator said
something really cool. It was a group of
women, imagine like 40 women in a room,
right?
And they're there to talk about
finances.
And in this room, they said, "Okay,
everybody close your eyes.
And I want you to picture money. Picture
money right now. And then I want you to
turn your body into the shape you feel
when you hear the word money, right?"
And so,
30 women, all eyes closed, they take
whatever shape. And she goes, "Now open
your eyes and look around." And you
know, my friend was explaining to me how
most people in the room were like fetal
position. They were like holding it,
they were like really close, some were
on the ground, you know, some were
covering their eyes. So, in a room of 30
relatively successful women, their
reaction was like attack, shame, guilt
for money? And she was like, and you
know, she she was standing there with
her arms open wide, like, you know, give
me the money. And when I think about my
relationship with money, it's the same
thing. I'm like, if I think about money,
I'm like, "Yeah, it's over here." Like,
my hands are up. Like, I am here for it.
But most people have this weird
emotional attachment to money. And so, I
used to think that people on the
internet like, not I like Tony Robbins,
but like Tony Robbins or whatever who do
a lot of the motivational stuff, I kind
of didn't get it. I'm like, "Just give
me the tactics. Skip the Skip the other
thing."
And then I realized that most people
have really bad stories that they tell
themselves about money. And you could
tell, I mean, it'd be interesting in
your next speech, you could try it. I
tried it at one of mine, same thing. Men
and women holding each other like
they're being beaten when somebody talks
about money. The average human feels
that way.
And so, I think it it all comes down to
what we believe, which is hard for
somebody in finance like me to say, you
know? Typically, I would think, well, if
you knew what to do, you could just do
it.
But that's not the case. It's you have
to believe that you can do it. And the
only way I can figure out to get more
people to believe that they can do it is
to show more people who are super normal
or in fact below average doing the damn
thing. But if I had the answer to that,
that'd be the million-dollar question. I
read a
a stat in the US that
only one in 10 people dies wealthy in
the US. That most people die broke and
and young.
And and I thought that was fascinating
because we're at economic high times,
like lower poverty levels than ever
before. But still, most people die
at least without extra cash to pass on
to the next generation.
Why do you you think people don't reach
financial freedom? Why most people die
without a lot of cash? I think obviously
it's a very complex topic, but I think
I really resonate with the emotional
psychol- psychological
side of things that you described, you
know?
It's the same reason why most people
don't go to the gym or eat healthy.
Money is inherently emotional. When I
was when I had no money, I was reckless
with money. Right.
All the gambling shops are in the areas
where people don't have money. Um
there's something deeply psychological
about money. So I would if I when I was
working in those call centers, if I got
paid a thousand pounds at the end of the
month, I would the same day go and buy a
TV
or an Xbox, like a PlayStation
for about 6-700 pounds. I would not pay
my rent to go and buy that PlayStation.
And sometimes I'd buy the PlayStation
without having a TV. There was just
something psychologically attached to
the I don't know the dopamine rush or
the sense of self-worth that I got from
owning the shiny thing. When I got
money,
my
relationship with money
became amazing. Yeah. I I stopped buying
designer things. I stopped wasting it. I
didn't feel a need to to show off or
buy, you know, Rolexes or whatever. So I
was able to preserve wealth more.
There's a really interesting
relationship with money on both ends of
the spectrum. When when you have less of
of it's hard it's often because of
certain psychological things in certain
people, I was one of them, it's harder
to hold on to. When you have more of it,
it feels easier to hoard and people, you
know,
and
more broadly on the on the subject of um
why people don't reach financial
freedom, I think
the modern world tells us that we can
get rich quick. Yeah. And when you think
about how people build wealth, we think
about the Warren Buffett's of the world,
it's so boring and slow.
And no, who's going to buy that book?
Yeah, it's so true.
You know, get be a billionaire at 87. I
[ __ ] what?
I'm not going to be able to, you know,
dance in the nightclub at 87. So, why do
I want a billion then? That's why the
NFT thing and the crypto scam, this
whatever, is also appealing to people.
Yeah. Cuz it's quick. Yeah, it's true.
Well, you know what's I actually um was
reading somewhere a story about in South
Africa in the slums, um they have the
highest concentration of the largest
televisions uh per square foot of the
the houses. So, that you you if you've
been there and and I've actually never
been, so I can't validate, but you will
see very small little rooms with huge
televisions.
And and I thought that was interesting.
Um but it actually makes sense cuz maybe
it comes down to a belief that people
don't think they're ever going to get
out. And so, they think the only chance
of getting out is going into
whatever the short-term pleasure is.
It's like if you never think you're
going to escape your everyday reality,
which is actually kind of miserable,
then you're going to buy the PlayStation
because why wouldn't you? Why would you
save and try to get out when you've
never seen anybody else get out? But
what does the play the PlayStation mean
so much more to you in that moment than
a PlayStation? It means it's your it's
self-worth. Yeah. It's
one tiny token that you are
successful. Yeah. That you can show your
friends or that you can just even fear
and self-esteem. It's so much more than
a PlayStation.
The thing that invalidates you in this
case money will be the thing that has
the greatest chance of making you feel
valid. And so if if in my house the lack
of money was always the thing that
caused my shame. So the minute I got any
of it, I would overcompensate by trying
to buy some [ __ ] to show people. Yeah.
Um
and then when I had loads of it I didn't
give a [ __ ] like uh
Yeah, that's true. That void was almost
filled. So Yeah, it's true. I also think
it's hard. I mean I remember many times
where
uh you know, I remember checking
accounts always being overdrawn. And uh
and you know, seeing the little negative
pin on my you know, email and and cell
phone that you couldn't there there was
nothing else in there. You know, when I
was in college and trying to figure it
out before I made any money. I think I
made like 37K in my first job out of
college. Um so I definitely remember all
that. But I think if you can have this
belief and you can get around other
humans who have have had success or are
striving for success your aperture just
opens in a different way. And then maybe
the commercials and the ads and the
things that make you feel like you want
to buy all the everyday stuff go away.
Like I don't really like I kind of
viscerally get mad when I see people who
have wealth
showing images of them in their Bentleys
or Rolls Royces or I mean I have a nice
watch but like you don't see me show
that [ __ ] anywhere. I like when people
are show themselves in their private
planes or whatever. I just think they're
missing the whole boat. And then what
they're doing is they're perpetuating
the PlayStation situation. They're doing
it again and again and they're doing it
because
it doesn't make them happy anymore to
have it. That's not enough. I have to
show a bunch of people I got it. And
what they should actually be showing is
man, I just invested in my first stock.
That's [ __ ] cool. Look at my I mean
if you look at my stuff it's like I have
laundromats and car washes behind me all
the time in them. Cuz that's the stuff
that you should try to strive for. You
can actually pass it down. It can pay
you back. You can buy as many
PlayStations as you want. But I think to
your point, the other thing is we are
all You know, have you ever felt um
like when you're around other people and
uh and they're sort of negative or they
want to talk about people the whole
time, and like how that energy feels?
And that's like it's draining, right?
Even if you kind of get caught up in it,
it's fun for a second, at the end you're
like, "Fuck, that was a
I feel kind of gross for having that
convo." I think it's the same with ads
and stuff that we take into us. And so,
they're basically creating our stories
for us in social media by showing all
this fancy stuff, and then we start to
have this memetic desire, this external
desire and belief that we actually that
we want it, that we need it, but we
don't. We're just becoming a replica of
the people that we're surrounding
ourselves with, which are now social
media. There's no Even growing up,
there's no laundromats in 50 Cent
videos. Yeah, there should be. It's all
sports cars and mansions and stuff. So,
that was my North Star as a young black
man. It was like, "How do I get a
mansion and a sport sports car?" And in
the first page of my diary at 18 years
old, it says four things I want to
achieve before I'm 25. Bear in mind, I
was shoplifting pizzas at the time, and
I was um a university dropout not
speaking to my parents with two CCJs,
which is like when the the court is
coming for you. Oh. For debts. I wrote
um a Range Rover Sport will be my first
car. Didn't have a driving license till
I was 23. Um I'll make a million pounds.
I'll I'll work on my body image, again,
cuz I was a very small kid. Uh and I'll
get a girlfriend. Those are my four
goals in life, and they were totally
influenced by
the outside world. That's why my book is
called Happy Sexy Millionaire, because I
thought if I became a sexy millionaire,
then I would become everything I needed
to be.
And I was so wrong. I mean, Yeah. I
don't regret the decisions I made,
because you can't really in hindsight,
but um
I wish I had better influences, to say
the least. Yeah. I mean, I think that's
why content is so important. You know, I
think about
I think about Warren Buffett's annual
shareholders meeting, right? Which you
can go and attend if you if you own
stock, and you don't have to own much of
it.
Um
and I think, you know, people made fun
of me when I started creating content
online, cuz they were like, "Oh, big,
successful private equity person, now
you're taking your own money, and if you
really had companies that made $80
million in revenue, that means they're,
you know, you're worth a couple hundred
million bucks. Uh and if that's the
case, why would you be making Instagrams
and TikToks? And that doesn't make much
sense, right?"
And my reaction at the time was, I think
we should make it just as entertaining
talking about stuff that makes us money
as we do stuff that costs us money. I
think probably that'd be good. And if we
could do that, that'd be a worthy
mission, and also it'd be fun to try to
do it. I don't know if we could do it,
but um
yeah, maybe the next rap videos, I mean,
and now, now for honestly, my favorite
deals to break down are the celebrity
deals, because they're fascinating.
Like, The Rock, have you ever looked at
The Rock's content from a
uh product perspective?
Brilliant. So, The Rock, if you look at
his content, so let's just talk
Instagram. If you go to The Rock's
Instagram, I want you to count how many
pieces of content he has that have
product placement in them of companies
he owns. And the answer is close to 80%.
So, almost every single post The Rock
does is an ad. But what do we really
see? We see sexy tequila, we see abs, we
see him with his beautiful wife. Like,
we see these other things, but we don't
realize that every single one of them is
an ad. And so, what if we could flip
that around? Like, wouldn't it be cool
if The Rock talked about the deals he
did, too? And how he did that? Now, he
goes back, and he talks about how he
stole stickers bar, similar to you with
with pizza.
Um but I think even for celebrities,
they don't want to talk about the deals
that they did. They just want to talk
about all the money that they have. It
almost seems like faux pas somehow to
talk about the deals and how good at
deal making they are. Like, Reese
Witherspoon,
billionaire now. Why? Because Reese
Witherspoon,
little sweet Susie Sunshine in pink,
Basically took a book club
and said to authors, I'll give you part
of my platform
for you to talk about your book
because I'm lovely. It's free. You're
going to sell a bunch of books.
Tiny insignificant detail. I'd like the
future rights to uh
turn your book into a movie and I'll pay
you some sum or I'll have a right of
first refusal aka I have I get the right
to buy it before anybody else and I'll
pay you then for it. Author goes,
amazing. Reese, of course. Perfect. They
come on. Reese basically AB tests, so
tests out which books do best, and
depending on which books do best, uh
Reese bought Reese buys their movie
rights and makes movies that create, you
know, tens of millions or hundreds of
millions of dollars in revenue. But
Reese doesn't tell that story. Reese
tells the Suzy Sunshine story of her
selling the books. I think the other
story's more interesting and more people
can learn from it.
So when I hear these deals and when I
see these big success stories, we've got
Kylie, we've got the Rihannas of the
world, we've got Ryan Reynolds, The
Rock, Reese Witherspoon.
The question that we must always be
asking ourselves, or I I certainly ask
it is, was that them?
Or did they just have a great advisor? A
financial advisor that came along at
some point and went, by the way,
you do like this Yeah. and you'll make
[ __ ] shitloads. Yeah. Well, my
question is, who cares? But
want to know the secret sauce. Yeah.
And so she's none of them are that dumb
where they don't know what the deal was,
right? Like even if somebody was smarter
than them, which could be Reese may have
a genius behind her, The Rock too,
probably Dany Garcia, his wife, his
manager. Kylie, yeah, the the goat, you
know, which is weird to say about the
Kardashians, but you know, behind them,
the mom, for sure. But they're, you
know, they're smart enough. When you
create that much wealth and you do it
continuously multiple times like Reese
has done with Draper James, too, you
definitely know what's going on. So I
think like sharing those secrets would
be cool. But that's usually where people
go. People go, "Well, they're famous, so
it's easy for them." Or, you know, "Who
did the deal?" And I'm like, "Yeah,
maybe it's Scooter Braun behind the
scenes, but I'd like I'd like to know
how they structured that."
The reason they don't tell you there is
because it feels like it's the opposite
of the authenticity that they're trying
to maintain. So, if they came out and
went, "Listen, the way that we did you
on that whiskey deal, I got 50%. My job
was to post it with the abs every week,
and you guys [ __ ] bought it, and now
it's worth a billion dollars."
How is the how-to? They can't do that
deal again because everything they touch
I'm going to think, "Ah, it's a deal."
Well, I think you could do it in a way
that was real. Like, you could be like,
"We did this business, and maybe you
could give some of it away." Like, you
could be like, you know, "If If The Rock
makes a billion dollars off of Teremana,
couldn't he then say, 'We would never
have done a billion-dollar deal unless
you guys bought it. And because you
bought it, we're going to
give you some equity. We're going to
allow people to buy into equity at the
company at a lower valuation and have
access to it.'" I mean, that's kind of
what venture capital and crowdfunding
does, right? So, I mean, they can do
whatever they want to do, but I think
there's so many ways to get around it.
And maybe there's nothing but downside
because people these days get mad when
people make money, and so maybe people
would hate that. But, God, I think it'd
make a lot more humans rich for people
to be honest about how they got there,
you know? I reflect as you were speaking
on a conversation I had with a cab
driver in the UK. He said to me, "You're
all you're that Diary of a CEO guy. I
listen to your podcast in the cabs, and
you know, I'm I'm working three jobs.
This is one of them, and I'm trying to
What he was saying was, "I'm trying to
find financial freedom. I'm working this
cab job. Um I'm doing this other little
thing on the side, but I'm trying to
find the way. I'm trying to find the way
to get out of this life into
And he was scrambling around. He was
saying to me, "You know, my friend does
some stuff in Africa and in Ethiopia,
and he's got some things there with
property, so I might go there, and
there's this other thing I might do.
Those people, those are the ones that
I'm trying to speak to you today. Those
ones that are like looking for the way
out. Mhm.
Well, first of all, cab drivers and Uber
drivers are my people. Yeah. I always
them. Yeah, I always chat with them.
Well, and they always listen to my stuff
because they know small business. Like
they have a friend that owns a
laundromat. Or they have a friend that
works inside of a car wash or owns a car
wash. These are like blue-collar
businesses. Mhm.
Um but usually what I would say to them
is something I actually said to one of
the guys that's with me today. I'd say,
try to break your frame entirely. Most
people look for individual next tactics.
So, they're like, what can I do over the
next 1 2 or 3 years to get here? One
thing I think is really helpful to do is
say, okay, you have a 3-year goal.
Break the frame. How could you achieve
that goal in 6 months? What would be
something so different, so out of the
box, so big that the goal that was going
to take you 3 to 6 years is now going to
take you 6 months. And I want you to
spend some time on that. Spend a week,
spend a weekend deeply thinking about
that idea. Because what you're going to
do is you're going to come up with ideas
for the person that could be the impetus
for your financial freedom. Or for the
business risk that's super smart, but
you haven't been wanting to take it. And
I think most people, they like they wade
in the shallows of life and you cannot
have massive change by going shallow.
And so,
I like to say when people want to an
answer, I like to answer ask them a
question because I think they know. I
think they know deep down inside, but
they get scared just like I did. And so,
they wait years to do the thing that
they knew they should have done earlier.
And I don't think you need a guru or a
podcast to tell you that. I think you've
got to break your frame and say, I'm
super capable. If I was going to do this
crazy thing in 6 months, if anything was
possible, if I really believed in
myself, what could I do? Who could I go
to that could make an unfair advantage
for me? And I do think that book, Who
Not How,
people usually read it as a leaders
because it's a lot about hiring, but I
think it's actually about life. And I
think usually your answer to freedom is
a who, not a how. Uh because often for
hustlers and people who are going to
work hard, you know one or two people
who are very wealthy or who run big
businesses. There are a few people in
your ecosystem that you could go to and
become their hustler for them. And that
can lead to
fantastic financial reward because most
people are not relentless in the pursuit
of the things that they want. If you can
be relentless, you can accomplish way
more than the average person.
And most of us you you used the phrase
earlier on in this conversation which
really stuck with me because I've used
this phrase with my friends over and
over again. You said you got to see
behind the curtain.
And I remember
the first moment in my life where I
really felt like I got to see behind a
curtain that I didn't even know was
there.
For anyone listening to this podcast,
there's a curtain on my right. For
anyone watching, you can see the curtain
on my right. Behind that curtain there
is actually a room in there. And there's
actually another studio in there where
we record some content. It's kind of
like a standing up studio. We've got
some backdrops and stuff like that. But
the analogy that I'd give you is in
life,
you never know how many other rooms
there are behind the wall. And there was
a point in my life where
I started understanding deals and the
public markets and how
certain high net worth individuals were
playing what I call money games. They
were basically not doing much work, but
they understood the laws of money, so
they could buy things at an arbitrage or
flip things at an arbitrage and make
put them on the public markets and all
of these crazy money games that no one
had ever told me about in life. I
thought it The way you build wealth is
by working.
And these [ __ ]
the richest people I know do very little
working and they do a lot of money
games. And they live behind in curtain
that I didn't even know was there.
Um and I was thinking about the cab
driver there.
There's so many
What is behind the curtain? The behind
the curtain is a bunch of information.
That's essentially what it is, you know,
a bunch of people that have a bunch of
information.
What I might say to that cab driver is
like, "Who can take you behind the
curtain? Even if you have to go get a
[ __ ] job for 6 months?" Yep. Like you
were alluding to it there, like is there
a a guy or a woman that I could go just
shadow, just make the [ __ ] tea and
get behind the curtain and figure out
how they do it? Yep. Like if you wanted
to be the best podcast in the world or
you wanted to be a good podcaster,
you can go ask Joe Rogan if you can go
clean the floors. 100%.
I mean? A lot of people don't want to
want to do that. They want to work their
way there, but
so much in life is about information,
right? And the information you you don't
even know that you don't have. Oh, yeah.
When did you see behind the curtain?
Well, you worked in finance, that's
unfair. Yeah.
I think I think it is a hack. Um I saw
behind the curtain
for the first time
when I had managers and bosses who were
making tens of millions of dollars a
year and I realized
how little they worked, like you said,
but also how
average they were. You know, I saw these
largely,
you know, middle-aged dudes who um were
no more impressive than I was and they
were crushing it. And instead of having
envy or hate for that, I was super
curious. I'm like, "Huh. This guy can do
it. That means I can do it." And I think
that's a huge unlock, actually. I was
talking with another friend the other
week and I think one of the secrets to
success might be when you see somebody
who has more, who is doing better, who
has more money,
realizing that means that you can get it
as opposed to I hate them because they
have it. If you can flip that mindset,
on the other side of that lives nothing
but opportunity.
And and it keeps I keep finding new
rooms in the house, new curtains behind
it. And I'm not sure that will ever
stop. I mean, I was talking to my friend
Bill Perkins the other day who's a hedge
fund manager. And Bill um
is very successful, huge, you know,
compound house we're walking around at.
I'm like, this place is pretty nice.
And uh and he said to me,
"Cody, um
you know, do you think that you because
you've been around small business for so
long, small has infected your thinking?"
And I was like,
"Oh God." You know,
I don't [ __ ] I don't know. And and but
then I realized to him it had because
he's got way more zeros than I do. And
so like those zeros become unlocks to
the curtain. I mean, the the other day I
was flying home yesterday or flying here
yesterday and I sat next to Geoffrey
Kent, the CEO and founder of Abercrombie
& Kent.
And he built that business up to
multiple billions of dollars before
selling it. He uh played polo with the
king, is quite close with King Charles
and um
you know, uh also has traveled the
world, came from nothing in South
Africa, was in a town in South Africa
where there are only 100 white people,
which is fascinating. Um like mostly was
barefoot all throughout his childhood um
and created the luxury travel market
essentially. And I was just sitting next
to him on on the airplane and I kind of
looked at his watch and I was like,
"That's a nice watch." And I sort of
looked at his mannerisms and I was like,
"I just have a feeling this guy is worth
a lot of money." And so I started
chatting with him. I just said, you
know, "Hi. Like, I'm Cody. Um you know,
why were you in town? What were you
doing in Cannes?" And um
he lives now in Monaco.
And what I thought was so interesting is
when I talked to him, I said, "What do
you think the secret is? Like, you're a
billionaire. Like, what is that? How how
do you become that?" And he said there's
really one ingredient to success. And
that ingredient is the thing that
everybody has but everybody wastes.
time.
Time.
He's like, I ran my company for 61
years. 61 years running one company. He
goes, can you imagine what the
compounding looks like in 61 years
focused on one thing? He goes, this
generation cannot imagine.
And and then we went a little deeper and
I said, you know,
what do you think's the biggest
difference between entrepreneurs today
and entrepreneurs when you were really
in the game? Cuz he's in his 80s now.
And he said, well, back then, we
we were explorers
of the only frontier that still existed,
which was business. You know, they were
the the privateers
asking money for the king and queen to
buy a ship to go to the to the new land,
right? Except he was doing it in a
business sense. He went to China in '76
and was the first person to open up the
Chinese market to travel. You know, he
uh broke so many bones uh playing polo
that he had to retire at a young age.
Like they were hard men. And I think
about it with um
with with us today, I think that we've
become a generation of vitamin D
deficient
uh Allbirds-wearing
uh
computer-programming
alternative-milk-drinking
softies in many ways. And some of my
most successful friends who are worth so
much monetarily, their health is not
very strong, they don't adventure, and
they don't have true difficulty. And I
think that's the difference between his
generation and ours and between true
success and not is this idea that I'm
sort of playing with like a third-degree
human, somebody who has a strong mind, a
strong bank account, a strong body.
Those three things all together. And
where we don't just take other people's
risk, meaning take other people's money
to run our business, but we we take the
risk ourselves.
And I think his generation really did
many things wrong, I don't want to
glorify it, but I think they did that
right. And how much more interesting is
it to do these big huge things? And
maybe if you do that, you break the
frame entirely.
Um
and I every time I meet with a
billionaire, my mind just kind of
it expands a little bit more. And I
think it's the same way like the first
time you met like my parents weren't
millionaires when I was growing up. So,
the first time I met a millionaire, I
thought, "Whoa. Like this is a What is
this magic land?" You know, this person
has so much money they don't know what
to do with it. And then you meet the
first decamillionaire, and then you meet
the first hundred millionaire. And at
each level, not that we want to worship
money or that money that is all there
is, but it is a scoreboard for a game
that a lot of people are playing in this
society.
And I think it's interesting to try to
get in those rooms. And these days,
those rooms are open, you know? Back
when we were first doing our businesses,
a billionaire didn't write a book, or do
a podcast.
or do a podcast. Or tweet. Or go shake
your hand at a conference. That was
unheard of. And now they're all around.
What have you noticed in billionaires?
What's the trend? You know, people I've
met a quite a lot of billionaires now,
and there tends to be some similarities.
Yeah. They all get there in different by
different routes and different paths,
but similarities in character and
philosophy. Yeah.
One is I've found most billionaires I've
met have a mission so big it dwarfs the
pain that comes with building. Because I
do think it's more comfortable by and
large. It's more It's like the low dull
pain
is being in a job.
You know, that's like kind of like
having a little ache constantly being in
a job. Being
uh an owner, an entrepreneur, or trying
to strive for billionaire status is a
roller coaster ride of extreme pain at
some points, or maybe you'd say extreme
pain at some points, extreme pleasure.
and you you kind of go like this, right?
You have to be able to wade through
that. And so, I find that most of them
are the opposite of what I thought
they'd be. I thought they'd just be like
Scrooge McDuck like swimming around in
their riches. They'd be kind of shallow.
Maybe, you know, maybe they'd be super
self-interested. They'd only be focused
on their own thing. They wouldn't be
nice. I wouldn't want to meet them. And
actually, what I find, they're
This is going to sound like a gross
generalization, but most of them really
want to help you up when they realize
that you're hungry. Like when they see
the hunger paired with the ability and
willingness to take action, they want to
help you. It's so rare. Like if you're
listening and you have that desire, but
you actually do the hard things, you're
rare. You're actually really rare. Cuz
everybody says they want it, but nobody
really wants to do it. I mean, I knew I
had to fire one of my employees back in
the day, which made me really sad. The
second that that person told me that
they had a bunch of debt,
uh they were working in the business
with me, obviously. They had a bunch of
upside in the business,
but they decided to take some of their
cash and they were going to invest in a
day
day trading uh thing in the stock
market. And I said, "I really don't
think you should do that. I think if you
want to take that cash and buy a
business, we should talk about that. I
can help you.
Um if you want to focus more on a
secondary business that increases your
income, but if you want to day trade,
what you're telling me is that you want
to get rich fast and you want to
speculate. That you want to get lucky,
you don't want to earn it."
And anyway, they kind of laughed and
then they did the thing. And that was in
that moment I knew you don't have what
it takes at this level. Maybe you could
change, but if you're going to make that
decision now, you're telling me you're a
short-term player. And long-term games
with long-term people like Naval
Ravikant said is the goal. So, that's
what billionaires have. They think
long-term. I was actually just talking
with a member of my team on the taxi on
the way over here.
And there's a close to a billionaire
that I've become friends with here.
And I was like, "Why do you think he's
inviting us to do this stuff? You know
who this is?" And um And I was like,
"I'm not a big enough name for this.
Like, there are other people, you know,
what's the thought here?" And then what
I think I realized is that
this guy is taking a bet that I might
keep growing my social platform and I
might keep spending on it and in two to
three to five years, I might be a really
big name. And because he associates with
me now, when he needs something in two
to three to five years, I'll be really
big and he'll have a like a remember
when moment here. And he could go get a
Daymond John, right? And pay to do
something with a Daymond John, but then
he doesn't have the remember when moment
cuz Daymond's already at the top, right?
And so that billionaire, almost
billionaire, is thinking
three to five years out with a potential
call option, aka a maybe possibility.
How often do we do that? I don't even do
that enough. And so that's where I think
they're different. It's just this
different scope because probably they
see many curtains.
With that long-term view, they want to
water some seeds, right? Mhm. I I can
totally relate to that. I've
often said been perplexed in my life by
why extremely rich people wanted to give
me a hand.
Right.
Especially when I was like 18. Kid with
an idea, all the enthusiasm in the
world, you know, but mhm,
you know?
don't trust it, right? Like
It was so weird. Yeah.
I've I've described it as bit being so
unusual over and over again every year
for the last 10 years that when I was
18, 19 years old and I stood on those
stages and I went around again stealing
the Chicago Town pizzas in my spare time
to feed myself, but all of these really
successful people wanted to give me a
hand. Like wanted to introduce me to
someone, you know, give invest in my
business even though I had no
credentials. They just saw something in
me that I never understood. I That would
be an interesting thing to try to break
down. What is it that you see in another
human? I mean one of the things that
comes to mind for me is how many people
reach out to you Every single day. A DM,
you know, I'd love to meet you Steven.
Could you help me with this? Could you I
would get a guess a lot. None. I'm
joking. I was going to say that seems
like that doesn't track, but okay.
So probably a lot. But what I found is
interesting is in the beginning when I
was starting to be a little public, I
would respond to almost all of them.
Almost every single one I would respond,
but I would respond like this. I would
say
happy to help, read this book, uh and
then do XYZ thing for me. Something very
small. I'm like, read this book first,
do this small thing. Do you know how
many people did that? [ __ ] all. None.
[ __ ] all. That's a great saying. I'm
going to use that. [ __ ] all. Not a
single person actually did that. And
then if you compare that with I think
I've hired five team members now who all
reached out to me with value. They gave
right away. One of them did this a deep
analysis on my business. Another one
basically wrote up this whole piece like
she was me. Um and it was incredible.
And for those individuals who actually
asked nothing of me, I gave them a job
and opportunity and many of them make
six figures plus.
And so there might be a secret there
that just the humans who do are the ones
who follow up. The The DM tells me
everything I need to know about the
person. Yeah. And I I can give you every
example of every DM that I ever get and
how I filter them.
How I know from the first DM whether
they are someone that I should be
connecting with. Let me give you the one
side of the spectrum. The one side of
the spectrum which I often get is
any jobs going?
In that you've told me everything I need
to know because not only could you have
checked if we had jobs available on our
many websites where we list our
vacancies, you didn't even have enough
effort to like go check out the job
site. Um didn't say hello, poorly
structured message. Um
you think that we hire over DM on the
basis of no pitch at all. That's the
extreme example, but it happens. You
wouldn't believe I will get any jobs
going once a day without fail on one of
my inboxes.
And sometimes
and I've never said this before, on the
very rare occasion, I'm saying once a
year, I'll click on the person's profile
and I'll
care about them so much that I'll send
them a voice note. So cuz I I look I
click on their profile. I remember this
one kid and he kind of looked like me.
Oh, yeah. And he was a young kid and I
remember thinking, I really, you know, I
could just ignore it. It's the easy
thing to do. The hard thing to do was to
try and give them some feedback on like,
"Please don't do that to more people.
Please don't send them any jobs going?"
question mark. So I remember sending one
particular kid like a voice note saying
like, "Right, listen, buddy. I'm on your
side here. Here's some advice.
Um
And then on the extreme end, the good
end.
happened with that? What happened?
response was he would he he was
thankful. Oh, that's good.
But when he responded, I realized why he
was the type of person that would send
any jobs going. Maybe a bit of a
maturity issue there.
Sure.
And then on the other end, you have the
perfect reach out where someone realizes
that they can't give you what they're
asking to take from you. So someone
wants maybe an hour of your time. They
know they can't give you anything worth
an hour. They can't give me 50k. They
can't nothing. Nothing they can give me
worth that hour of my time.
But they do two three things, maybe. The
first is they realize that.
And so they realize that they should
offer something of value. Even I'm not
I'm never going to take it. They but the
gesture itself, it's like someone
pulling out their card to pay. The
gesture itself matters. It does. The
third thing is they realize the world
that I live in and that I have no time
and they acknowledge that. So they might
say, "Listen, you get thousands of
messages like this. Um
I know how busy you are.
So just by them saying that, I go,
"Okay, you understand." Yeah.
Could I could I just sit? So I see it as
an equation. Ask for as little as
possible and give whatever you can.
Could I just sit in the room one day
when you work means a lot to me. The
third point there is research the person
because that's a huge show of care.
I know you're a big Manchester United
fan. I know your dog's called Pablo.
In exchange, I will I don't know,
[ __ ] I will I've made this jacket for
Pablo. I've so knit myself. If someone
said that to me and people are going to
do this now.
Pablo does not need a jacket. We're
coming into summer. He likes being
naked. Um
but just showing you you made an effort.
Oh my god, it's the keys to my heart.
Yeah, it's true. Um and then ego's a
great thing as well. Everyone has an
ego. So just acknowledging you've you've
done your research on someone is another
huge way. Yeah. And I think the sneak,
too,
if you're listening, is like skip the
famous people. They get enough. Like
forget it. Like yeah, just skip them
all, you know, even like sort of famous
people. Like skip all that and go to the
people with money because often they're
quiet. People can't find them. They
don't get a lot of reach out. And so if
I was young and hungry,
I would skip the flash, skip the the
Bentley's, skip the Rolexes, skip the
fame, and I would go straight to like
who's the richest sprinkler owner you
know. Like who's the guy on your block
that has the biggest house that does
something that sounds so boring to you
You also learn the most from like the
level like closest to you. And if you
can kind of like level up a little bit,
you know, if you go from you right now
to billionaire and billionaire goes,
"The thing is you got to work hard,
kid." You're like, "Fuck, I don't know
what that means." You know, but if if
you go to the next person and you're
like, "No, the thing is you have to send
this exact email, which is what I sent
to this person." They're so much closer
to your climb, you know, they remember
the steps. Um
And they want to men- they want someone
to men- mentor.
They do. Yeah.
They'd be most flattered by you know
that I have 300 sprinklers around
London. Like they would be blown away by
someone taking such amount of effort and
care to research them. Exactly. Yeah.
And you know, and they probably had to
do really interesting things to create
their wealth that weren't single events.
You know, if you reach out to somebody
who is now I know about the show on Love
Island, like what are they going to
teach you? Like, yeah kid, be
charismatic, kind of hot, and get on a
TV show, right?
form. Yeah, exactly.
Like, that's not okay. And then have a
bunch of money and get famous. Uh
but if you reach out to somebody who
built a toilet business here, like
that's there's probably a lot they had
to do continuously over time that you
could learn from. But it's not that
sexy, so people don't give a [ __ ]
A quick word on Huel. As you know,
they're a sponsor of this podcast, and
I'm an investor in the company. And I
have to say, it's moments like this in
my life where I'm extremely busy, and
I'm flying all over the place, and I'm
recording TV shows, and I'm recording
shows in America, and here in the UK,
that Huel is a necessity in my life. I'm
someone that regardless of external
circumstances or professional demands,
wants to stay healthy and nutritionally
complete. And that's exactly where Huel
fits in my life. It's enabled me to get
all of the vitamins and minerals and
nutrients that I need in my diet to be
aligned with my health goals, while also
not dropping the ball on my professional
goals, because it's convenient, and
because I can get it online, in Tesco,
in supermarkets all over the country. If
you're one of those people that hasn't
yet tried Huel, or you have before, but
for whatever reason you're not a Huel
consumer right now, I would highly
recommend giving Huel a go. And Tesco
have now increased their listings with
Huel, so you can now get the RTD, ready
to drink, in Tesco Expresses all across
the UK.
Why is it important for you now, the
last 2 years you've started making
content?
Why is it Why do you think everybody
should make content? What are all the
upsides you've seen in your life? Some
of the unexpected ones, too, please,
that have resulted from you becoming a
content creator. Mhm.
What's the most unexpected one?
I wanted every single person that I
wanted to reach out to to pick up my
phone call. Like, I don't ever want to
be the person standing in line at the
club. I want to own the club. I want to
get the invite. I'm actually
another good example. I was just with my
friends in Cannes, and they were like,
"Let's try to get into this party or
this party." I'm like, "I was invited to
this one. I'm going to go to this one."
Because I don't like doing the hustling
to try to get into the I don't like it.
I've never liked it. It's probably a
Like, I should get better at it. I
should get over myself. Who cares? But,
I was like, "I'm not going to try to
like finagle my way in." That's the
short-term game, right?
Right. And it feels gross, and it feels
thirsty. I don't want to be thirsty. And
so, creating content is a way for you to
have unfair access in a world.
Um, you know, these days, how do I
become friends with billionaires?
Because they watch my weird content on
laundromats and car washes, and they see
something in it. And so, that if if we
truly believe that money
is power, I think the way you get money
is usually people, which is like a theme
we've kept coming back to. Most people
on the internet, I think, try to explain
how smart they are. And what I hope to
express is like, I'm not that smart. I
just found people, you know? And I And I
think we can all do that. So, that was
one. I don't I don't want to be standing
in line in the club trying to like
finagle my way in. I want to find that
What's the What's the back door that
nobody's talking about where they invite
you into it? That's one.
You know, the second is Let's pause on
that.
Yeah. Cuz I think that's it's that's not
just a nightclub analogy. That's That is
a philosophy towards every facet of your
life, being
the magnet or the peacock instead of the
door-to-door sales person. Yeah. Like,
you know what I mean? Like, even all my
companies have grown on this basis. All
of my companies have grown on the basis.
This is maybe my biggest One of my
least shared business secrets is that
all of my companies don't have outbound
sales teams because we make content, and
we know I know that 99% of my
competitors are going to go the
door-to-door salesman route. They're
going to go networker events. You will
In the last 10 years, you have never
seen me swanning around in a network
event.
Content is networking. Yeah, I agree. I
You will never catch me. I I won't have
a business card. I'm not going to hand
it to you. I won't even be there. On
stage, out the back
meet people. Hello. Hello. Hello. Out
the back door. Same. Straight back onto
LinkedIn Yeah. to start making content.
People don't realize that and it's much
easier. It's a much
more sustainable, more cost-efficient
long-term strategy if
you know how to do it. Yeah. Well, I
mean, and if you actually want to see me
like sweat, it would be having to go
Small talk.
network, small talk, like oh god, I want
to die.
Um and I had to do sales for so long in
finance. You know, finance is just all
sales. We used to at Goldman, we had
like a spreadsheet that they would track
every single day how many cold calls you
made when we were trying to sell a deal.
And um it was awful. You know, I
remember one time I was like pretending
like I understood golf. And so I'm like,
oh, that's great. Like how was How was
the game yesterday? Did you Did you get
the goal? And they were like, what the
[ __ ] you talking about? You know, I
don't know anything about it. Miserable.
Um It's like a fishing rod versus a net,
isn't it? Like the fishing rod can only
catch one fish.
Yeah, it's true.
I throw that [ __ ] net out, which is
making a banging video about the subject
matter of the industry, I could catch
300 fish. That's exactly right.
same amount of time. Yeah. I mean, it's
push versus pull. Yeah. Do you want to
have Do you want to pull people to you?
Or do you want to have to push and, you
know, scream and what and I I I just I'm
not interested in that. So, that's why I
think content's so
so powerful. The other thing about
content is you find your humans. I mean,
it can get
it can get a little lonely, you know,
having built a bunch of stuff and had
some success. And I've had many times
where over the years
the person that I've become is not the
person that the people I love loved, you
know? And so I had to I had to move past
that.
Shared. Yeah. And it's it sounds, you
know, everybody I I will often tweet
things that are things to myself. It's
like notes to me. And that happens to be
in a tweet form.
And one of them is like, you know, you
get in a room with people who are
smarter than you and then you leave when
that's no longer the case.
And that's not saying that you get rid
of friends, but typically they'll get
rid of you. Like when you're outgrowing
people, it's uncomfortable for the
people that you've outgrown. They don't
like to see that you are moving forward
at such a fast progression. Which I wish
it wasn't that way. But you know, I had
a girlfriend that I was friends with for
[ __ ] you know,
now I'm feeling old, but like, you know,
almost 20 years, like 18 years. And when
I started getting like kind of notoriety
on the internet, uh I didn't realize it
bothered her, you know, but it did. And
so, you know, at one point she's like,
"You're posting about all your other
friends and not me." And I was like,
"Oh, I only post business stuff. You
know, I didn't I didn't My parents
aren't on There's no personal stuff on
there. I keep that pretty private. So, I
didn't realize that was important to
you." And this was a rift that just like
never healed. And so, I think that
happens continuously, but I like contact
cuz then I find the humans who actually
want you to win.
Who like get super inspired by that. And
when you find those people, I think it's
worth more than the winnings.
Amen.
Amen.
There is a shedding. People don't talk
about this enough that when you start
putting yourself out there, especially
when you start becoming a quote-unquote
thought leader, Yeah. the people that
knew you before
look at you and think,
"Who the [ __ ] does he think he is? You
think you're You think you're Gandhi or
Martin Luther King, Steve?" Yeah.
Like come back down here with us. Right.
You know?
That must have happened to you in a big
way. Yeah, I think
definitely. I almost think of my life as
being in school, leaving to go to
university, dropping out of university,
being a being pretty much alone, and
having a chance to reinvent myself, and
then emerging as who I really was. Yeah.
And um
I have no current friends that from
school still. Well, no one that I speak
to from my school days. And I have no
one really even from that university
phase. Everybody has been since because
you know, this is what I'm into, and so
it's a new person to resonate with or
not resonate with, so It's It's I think
that's actually very, very true. I think
can't like if you had friends that were
super excited for you still
at this point and were curious and
growing and they don't have to be
monetarily growing. It could be totally
different. They could be obsessed with
MMA and all they want to do is is do
jujitsu, but that's that's their area of
of expertise. You would you would
respect that and value that and you guys
could stay friends. But what typically
happens is when you grow a lot, it's
this it's like holding a mirror in front
of somebody else and saying all the
time, "Why aren't you doing the things
that you can and the things that you
could be capable of?" And when people
see that mirror nonstop, they start to
look at you and think, "I don't like
what I'm looking at."
And so I've I've really had to come to
terms with that, too. What my path is is
not
perfect, it's not right. I mean,
sometimes don't you wish you could just
like actually Netflix and chill? Like
you didn't want to achieve all the time?
I certainly do. I'm addicted to
achieving. I love it. I wish I could
slow down sometimes. There's a big
difference here, actually, because you
said you started on this path at 30.
Yeah. So maybe the reason I didn't
experience it as much is I started at
18. Ah. I hadn't built a career and I
hadn't built social circles around me
when I started to make content and
started these businesses and started,
you know, talking on the TV about
business and whatever else. So I didn't
have as much to shed, as much of a
built-up identity to shed. Oh, good
point.
But I do I meet people all the time that
are, you know, 40, 50 that are thinking
about making an identity pivot that are
like trapped by the identity and social
circle they've built Yeah. and the
expectations that comes with that.
It's a good point. Yeah.
It's harder the
the bigger the walls you've built in
terms of identity and the more
established your identity is. I think
that's a really good point. Yeah. I
mean, I think I had to get divorced,
quit a job, move a city,
uh and change a lot of things that
weren't who I felt like I was.
Are you happy now?
Way happier now.
Yeah.
But, you know, it's a miserable thing
leaving another human behind, you know?
Like um
you know, I don't I don't wish divorce
on anybody. I don't like whenever I meet
somebody who's divorced, I always say,
"I'm sorry and congratulations." Because
it's kind of both. Um Was your decision?
It was my decision. Yeah. We just wanted
different lives, you know? He He was
very happy in a white picket fence
country club
life
and uh wanted a couple kids and wanted
to stay really locally based and kind of
wanted me to not work.
And so, when I thought about my life, I
was like, "I want to live all around the
world. And I want to build something so
big that I can't sleep because I need to
create it." And
and I want to leave a legacy that is not
um managing director at a private equity
firm. Um and I'm not ready for kids. And
and I'm not sure I want to have kids
with you.
And he really wanted me to change. And
I'm not sure that we should ever try to
change somebody that we're with.
There's going to be thousands of people
that have heard you say what you just
said and think, "Fuck, that's me." Yeah.
I'm in that job with that partner in
that city and I just know I'm unhappy.
Yeah. I can just feel it. There's this
like sense of
you know, there's a signal inside me
telling me that I shouldn't be here. And
I can I can hear it. Sometimes I I
justify it away or I try and drown it
out, but I know.
What would you whisper to that person?
What did you
What would have been words helpful words
to
this Cody at 36 Mhm. to whisper to that
Cody at 29?
Two words my dad said to me, which is
exit tax. So, uh when I left, it was
expensive uh
and both physically and and emotionally.
And uh and I told my dad about it and he
said there's always an exit tax to
freedom.
Um and that stuck with me because I was
like, "Oh, this is just This is just a
toll. It's just a payment." But once it
gets paid, what's on the other side?
That word freedom.
And one thing that really helped me
actually when I was going through this,
which all this is funny cuz I don't ever
talk about this stuff, but um
but I got a little place. Like I had
like the big house, all the stuff,
whatever before, and I got this little
tiny townhouse
right afterwards. Actually, at one
point, like I couldn't get into my bank
accounts and stuff. And so I I didn't
have much, but I got this tiny little
townhouse that I rented.
And that
uh tiny townhouse nesting in a place
that was just my own that felt really
safe was one of the weirdest unlocks
that I've ever had. I now think about it
as the power of place. If you can just
have somewhere else that you go to that
is just yours, that's my biggest
recommendation for people that go
through, let's say, a divorce or a
really tumultuous, you know, change in
partner,
is there's something about like
a glass of, you know, I would have like
a little glass of wine or a cup of tea
in this tiny little townhouse, but it
was mine. It was like nobody else's. I
didn't have to share it. I didn't have
to compromise. I could just be me. And
from there I could sort of recreate
again. Um and I've heard that now from
many, many, many women at least who have
been divorced that like that next little
tiny place is really important. And I
and I think if I could do it again, I'd
I'd go back and buy that place and I'd
like Maybe I'll buy a few and I'd give
it to women, like or men, right after
they get out of their thing because it's
almost like you need to stand on your
own two feet again. You forget how to.
So, I would just remember there's an
exit tax to freedom.
And then on the other side
don't you know, I like to say like
you know, I don't think you shouldn't
strive for divorce. You know, I think
marriage is tough and relationships are
tough and there's a huge benefit to
working through things with one human
for life. I take that very seriously.
But if you are in fact in something that
is unhealthy and that you should not be
in
realizing that the other side
is so much better than I ever could have
imagined. I mean, I would not have the
life that I live right now, which is a
pretty [ __ ] great life if I had
stayed on the side of easy. And now, you
know, when I told my mom she like cried
for days and you know, questioned it and
you know, was like, how are you going to
do this? And now
uh she's the opposite. She's like, you
know,
yeah, it was the such the right
decision. I'm so happy for you. And will
say things to me like, you
were so brave, which is weird for me to
say out loud, but that you did that
because most people would stay.
Um
so that's what I would say. There's
definitely freedom on the other side.
Did you set goals?
Yeah, definitely.
How did you set your goals and what
goals do you have?
Well,
one of the ways that I figured out uh
how to get divorced was actually I set a
date on my calendar. So, I was like, I'm
going to commit to fixing this and
therapy and all of this stuff. But if
and here's what we're going to do and
here's the plan. And if we can't fix it
and this is like my drop dead date cuz I
was such a wuss I couldn't do it unless
I put it on a calendar. Um so, I'm a big
calendar person.
I I really like having a deadline.
When I was started writing this book, my
due date's in like 4 weeks or something
like that. And it's not like I look at
it frequently, but it's just out there.
You mean Yeah, it's just this
it's this thing that gets put in your
psyche and somehow you can work
backwards so much easier from a date.
So, it sounds so silly, but most humans
will say, well, in 1 year or 3 years or
5 years." I'm like, "Put it on your
calendar." Like, whatever that actual
timeline is,
and then try to work backwards. And then
for most goals,
I believe in short-term goals, 100%.
Maybe daily, weekly, monthly, annually.
But, 3 or 5-year goals, who knows? I
mean, you wouldn't have thought you were
doing this 2 years ago.
[ __ ] chance. I wouldn't have thought
so either. So, like, I might have a
really big vision for 10 years or 20
years,
but as I get closer, I might realize,
"Oh god, actually, nope, that's not what
I want." So, allowing yourself that
freedom
to not want to be the hot, sexy, rich
millionaire with Bentleys, and instead
say, "Oh no, what I actually want to do
is I want to talk about what I want to
talk about, with whom I want to talk
about, owning companies I want to, and
having no master." That's what rich
looks like for me. And if you had stuck
with your original goals, that wouldn't
have been the case. You got team
members? Yeah.
Employees?
Yeah. Some of them are here listening,
probably.
Um does it not feel like it's a bit of a
contradictory message in some ways where
you're trying to get them to stay? Yeah.
But part of their job is to get produce
content with you to get other people to
leave their jobs. Yeah. So, I have a
really important differentiator between
equity and ownership in a business and
skin in the game. I do not think
everybody wants to be a founder of a
business. I don't think everybody wants
to be an outright owner of a business. I
think everybody should have ownership,
always.
And so, the way that looks in our
business is basically every single
person who works for me, even all the
way down to my admin, gets skin in the
game. So, that means that if they do X
and Y and Z, they see how they can make
more money directly. If they come on to
my team, they can all source us deals
and get a percentage of the carry, which
means equity in the underlying
companies. I know you know that, but for
anybody listening. Um
everybody on my team's always has had
that. And then, you know, the the other
members of my team and businesses
before, like my last uh number two,
I then left the business to her, she
became the CEO of the business. So, she
has ownership of the business. I don't
let I should be really careful about the
fact that
if anybody on my team, and they already
know this, we just sent a message
yesterday, somebody asked for like a
testimonial from me
about work that they had done. But,
their work wasn't very good. So, I
wasn't going to give them a testimonial.
And I said to the team,
"Any one of our high performers,
if you ever want to leave this company
and you're great at this company, one,
of course, I'll open every door for you
and I'll write any testimonial or
whatever you need. And in fact, if you
want to start your own business, I hope
I'm the first phone call, cuz I would
like to invest in you. I want to be that
guy that saw that in you."
No doubt, every single time.
But, that's not for every human. Some
humans want to be in a business, like my
number two, my CMO,
Chris, he doesn't want to run a business
himself, but he does want ownership. So,
he has skin in the game from both a
revenue perspective and from uh
followership perspective. Same with my
head of content. Same with Christian and
our AdSense and our YouTube channel. So,
I think it's really important that you
make sure, when you continue to work
harder, you make more, no matter what.
So many people have philosophies towards
money. You know, people will say, "Oh,
you got to save more than you spend. You
got to [ __ ] not have the Starbucks
coffee. That's how you'll get rich."
What is your overarching philosophy to
building wealth and money? Do you have
something like a philosophy, a mantra?
Well, uh first, I think you should have
the [ __ ] coffee. I think that is
terrible advice. Um
so, I I like Dave Ramsey, I get where
he's going with it, but um
I think you cannot save your way to
wealth. You can only earn your way to
wealth. But, my mantra overall is that I
think every human on the planet should
understand the language of money, which
is finance. And if you understand the
language, then you can speak it
fluently. And when you can speak it
fluently, you can become an expert in
it. And expertise leads to a bunch of
cash. And so, everything we do is to try
to normalize deal making or the language
of finance. We're like the Duolingo to
finance on the internet. Um and I think
I mean, we have a goal of we want to
create 100,000 small business owners and
1 million financially free people. And
we track how many people tell us they
bought a business and how much revenue
and profit they earned.
And so, my goal is before we're done
with this, however long that's going to
be, I want to hit those two goals. And I
think we'll hit them in the next 5
years, maybe 7. Um but that's that is
that is the the gold star for me. That
and my new mantra, which you might
appreciate, which is my 2023 mantra is
like no more B players. Oh my god.
Because That was my 2021 mantra, my 2022
mantra. That was my That'll be my 2024
mantra.
Did you Have you seen those stats where
it shows about sitting next to B play
Oh, this is so good. My friend Vanessa
Van Edwards showed this to me. So,
there's a study
done across
hundreds of individuals, might be
hundreds of companies. It's a big study.
Um and essentially, it shows if you sit
next to an uh a high performer Yeah. So,
if you have your team sit next to a high
performer, you do. You will outperform
by 15%. So, a high performer just in
your proximity will increase your
performance by 15%. If you sit next to a
low performer, underperformer, it will
decrease your productivity by 30%.
So, every B player you bring on board is
not just decreasing their productivity
by 30%. It is that energy transfer,
which is that everybody around them
becomes a little bit less productive.
And I think one of the reasons people
want to be owners of companies is
because they feel that. People want to
stay at companies where there's a bunch
of winners. It's why I liked Goldman. I
was like, these guys are so smart. I'm
learning so much. I want to keep going.
When I was at Vanguard, I was like, oh
my god, these schleps are just
schlepping around the office not doing
anything. I'm not learning anything. And
they're by
you know, design sort of pulling you
back and down. And so I keep that number
on notepad next to my computer for me to
one not be the underperformer and two
it's not just about getting rid of
underperformers for you as a CEO, it's
not good to do to your team. So, you
know, we've definitely have have had
them in varying companies of mine, but
we push relentlessly to either make
people better or help them find the
thing that they can be an A performer
at. Do you know who's very sticky in
companies?
Who?
B players. Oh god, I know. C players
will get fired. B players will hang
around. That's exactly right. And A
players will probably leave. Yeah, and
well, A players will leave if you keep
being C players. They're gone. They're
not interested. Yeah. B players will
hang and they will think that you owe
them more is what I found.
Yes. They are the ones that ask for the
most, they're the most entitled, and
they're the most dangerous in a company.
It's like a cancer that you need to to
cut before it spreads, which sounds
like, okay, really?
Um, but it's actually true because your
employees are choosing to spend their
life and their time with you. And so
every B player that you associate next
to them is actually decreasing their
time and that's not a fair thing to do
to somebody in a company.
It doesn't make firing people easier.
It's never easy. It's never easy. Mhm.
But it's important. Yeah.
What's the most important thing you
think we haven't talked about? Mhm.
You know, we talked at the start of this
conversation about who's listening. And
you gave me the three personas and you
we talked about that person that's maybe
in that job and they're trying to find
their way out. What is the most
important thing for that person that we
haven't maybe yet
Maybe just one of my team members was
saying this on the way over. They're big
fans of yours. They listen to all your
stuff. Uh-huh.
And uh Are they A players and looking
for jobs?
Yeah. Yeah, actually one of them lives
here and uh and is a um
is freelance. Cool.
So, he could work for you. If you touch
my other one, I'm going to have to It's
going to be over, Steve.
the A player?
They're both They're both A players.
Okay. Um no, we're pretty good. I
definitely wouldn't travel around with B
players. No chance.
Um so, the um
and he said something that I thought was
really good, which was um
he was listening to your podcast and he
liked one in particular where you talked
about um
s-
like all the the failings of people who
are successful. And so, the only thing
that we haven't talked about is the fact
that
you know, we say all this stuff like
don't keep B players around. Get rid of
them, you know, do this, get better. And
and
and on the flip side of that, like there
are many mornings where I'm up at 8:00
or 9:00 and not 5:00 in the morning. And
there are many mornings where um
I'm stuck in a Tik Tok, you know,
Instagram K hole and I'm not doing the
thing that I'm supposed to be doing. And
I think normalizing the fact that people
who have achieved things also are awful,
[ __ ] up, don't do the right thing every
single day is important to me because
sometimes I get on these and I'm like, I
don't want people to perceive that I'm
on some high horse that's incredibly
capable and productive. That's not
always the case at all. I have many
periods where I have not done the right
thing, where I've messed up on business
deals, where uh I am
the worst in the room. And and I think
that's okay. It It's natural. We're
human. We're going to mess up. So, just
making sure people know that listening.
You don't have to be perfect to do any
of this. In fact, I'm sure you would
agree, we're both so flawed that if I
can figure this stuff out, I think any
working John can figure this stuff out,
too. I'm no smarter than anybody else. I
went to a party school. I didn't go to
Harvard. You know, I probably did more
beer bongs than I did, you know, honors
classes in college. And and I still
figured it out. And it took me until I
was, you know, 29 or 30, but that's
still pretty young.
Um so, we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest.
I love this question. They said,
"When was the moment you were most
afraid?
If they don't want to answer it,
who's your favorite member of One
Direction?"
That's great. But you don't tell them
who the person was that asked Oh, fine.
What I couldn't even name that, so I'm
going to have to answer the question.
When was I most afraid? Actually,
um
So funny. They are a comedian. I'm going
to give it away. Oh, okay. So, when was
I last most afraid um or when was I most
afraid ever? This is sort of silly, but
um
I hiked a mountain called Mike Mount
Baker
and uh
it is a technical climb, so you use ice
axes and crampons and it's freezing.
And I didn't really know what I was
getting into and um I don't like the
cold and I don't like heights and I
don't like camping. And so, 3 days
hiking a glacial mountain um that's very
high, it was like probably not my best
idea.
But I But I did it and um
I hated it. Like for 3 days, I was with
all these other women and they kind of
like liked it and I to be fair, I like
kind of thought I was tougher than them,
you know, and they know this, so they
can hear it, but you know, a lot of them
I have this big career. I I come off as
tough. I can you know, get out there, go
do it. And then here I was on this
mountain, I'm [ __ ] miserable. I'm
scared of the heights that I'm going to
fall off and tumble to my death. I'm
freezing. I have to sleep on top of a
glacier. I can't sleep. You're carrying
your your feces in a bag for 3 days,
which is another fun little side note.
And we get up on the second day,
it's so vertical that you have to be
roped in to each other on the climb.
And I'm at the end of it, too, which is
awful. So, I all I you know, I'm the one
that sees behind us, the guides in
front. There's like six of us or four of
us on a rope or something like that. And
we get up after climbing for 2 days. I'm
so miserable and mad that I said yes to
this. And we're on this crater, cuz
there's a volcanic crater before we
climb up what's called the wall, which
is an ice wall before you get to the
top, where you have to step like like
this with your ice ax to get up the
wall. And I like I'm like I almost want
to cry. I can't think of anything I want
to do less than this.
And everybody's preparing to go up. And
um
and I'm just like
I don't think I'm going to
I'm not going to go up anymore.
And I had all these ideas in my head,
like, but if you don't summit, like,
then you're not tough. And you got to
get up there cuz these other women are
going to do it, and then you're going to
feel bad and whatever. And as I thought
there, I was just like, what am I trying
to prove? Like, I'm pretty happy. Life's
good. Like I don't have on my bucket
list that I want to summit Mount Baker.
I just kind of said yes to this trip.
And it wasn't even the heights that was
so scary or the cold. It was like, am I
like a failure by not doing this tough
thing that everybody else is going to
do? And am I going to be the one person
that says like, I'm out. I'm going down.
I'm tapping out. I'm done.
And I like have this whole dialogue with
myself.
And then I told the guide, and there
were a few of them. I was like, yeah,
the thing is, I'm going to go back down.
I'm going to chill at like base camp.
I'm not going to summit. And my
girlfriends came over, and they were
like, let's talk about this. Let's get
motivational. And I'm like, no. Totally
fine. I just realized up here that most
of my life I've been trying to like
please a bunch of people to goals I
don't care about with things I don't
really want in order to achieve some
ridiculous thing. And like, I don't want
to climb up there. I'm going to be
pissed if I fall and break my neck doing
this thing I don't even want to do.
And so, I tell the guide. He's like,
cool. I've never run faster down the
side of a mountain. I get down to the
bottom. I'm happy as a [ __ ] clam. At
that point, I realize I have altitude
sickness, so I'm like tripping balls in
the tent, which is really good that I
realized that cuz then when I was
climbing the wall, I might have gotten
dizzy and that wouldn't have been good.
And I didn't realize when you got
altitude sickness, you it's it's
hallucinogenic. So, the tent's like
moving as I'm laying in it, but I'm
great cuz I'm back in the tent on the
the like uh second peak area. And then
on the way down,
like two of the women blew out their
knees. It was like a 6-hour evolution.
And I just remember thinking, [ __ ]
Like, what if I had done that thing I
was so scared of just because everybody
else told me that I should have done it.
And I felt like it took more courage for
me to not do the thing than do the
thing. So many people are right now
climbing a mountain where they don't
even care about seeing the view. Right.
You know? Right. Why do we do that?
So,
yeah, I think sometimes, you know, they
say everything you want is on the other
side of fear, and it's like
if
the thing that you want is the thing on
the other side of fear, it's not every
fear we have to charge into.
And so,
I guess choose your mountain wisely,
right?
Amen.
Thank you, Cody. Thank you for your
time, your wisdom,
and your entertaining, captivating
storytelling, and uh
and insights. It's really, really
valuable to our audience. There's not
many people like you out there, so it's
so wonderful to to get to speak to
someone. And the mission that you're on
is such an important one.
I love it for so many reasons. I love it
because you you glamorize the
unglamorous. And I often think in so
many facets of our lives, the easiest
way is in fact the boring way. Yeah.
It's the the way that isn't going to get
the likes and the applause on Instagram.
And there's not There's not a market for
that, right? There's a market for the
quick, shiny,
six-pack abs in 3 minutes, all that
stuff. There's the market for that, all
the NFTs, the cryptos, the
get-rich-quick schemes. You present the
important counter-narrative, and you do
it as an incredibly powerful, honest,
willing to be vulnerable woman in
business, and we need more of that
because
business and the creator world, the
entrepreneurship community is heavily
dominated by men right now. And that is
that is not a bridge that um
many people can relate to. Those stories
and where they've come from and the
battles that they face. So, you present
the counter narrative and it's a very
important one. So, I also bet on you
like our mutual friend does in a big way
and I can't wait to see your evolution
as you climb that worthy mountain over
the next couple of years. Thank you for
having me. This was a pleasure. Totally
different podcast. I can see why so many
people listen to you. So, thank you for
having me today. You're very kind. Thank
you, Katie.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Zoe
is now sponsoring this podcast and I'm a
proud investor in the company and I've
been going on the Zoe journey myself. It
all starts with this home testing kit
you get sent in the post which measures
your gut health, your blood sugar, and
your blood fat. I've had this little
device, this blood sugar glucose sensor
on my arm which came in the home testing
kit to understand how all of the
different foods that I eat day-to-day
have an impact on my body. And it's been
pretty unbelievable. A big thing for me
is feeling tired after I've eaten
something and not understanding why.
Historically, I didn't understand. Now I
do understand. I've been eating, I think
it was like a rice stir-fry with a bit
of chicken and some chili sauce in there
and I saw on my blood glucose chart on
my phone, which is connected to the
device that Zoe sent me, this huge
spike. And then later in the day, I saw
a huge dip when I started feeling that
sort of post-lunch slump. And what will
happen next is Tim tells me they'll take
all of that data and give me my own
personalized Zoe scores for any food so
I can figure out what I should be eating
and what I should avoid if I want to
avoid those afternoon slumps. And if you
want to get started on your Zoe journey
with me, use the code, we've got an
exclusive code here, CEO10
for 10% off and let me know how you get
on when it arrives.
You got to the end of this podcast.
Whenever someone gets to the end of this
podcast, I feel like I owe them a
greater debt of gratitude because that
means you listened to the whole thing.
And hopefully that suggests that you
enjoyed it. If you are at the end and
you enjoyed this podcast, could you do
me a little bit of a favor and hit that
subscribe button? That's one of the
clearest indicators we have that this
episode was a good episode and we look
at that on all of the episodes to see
which episodes generated the most
subscribers.
Thank you so much and I'll see you again
next time.