Can I show you seven AI side hustles
that are paying people more than their 9-to-five job that you can start using
free AI tools? Well, that is a challenge I've set myself today. And I genuinely
think that some of the business ideas will surprise you because as you'll see
these days, even if you are broke and have zero dollars to invest, there is
actually a lot that you can create using free tools if you are creative. So then
let's start with the first AI side hustle on my list today and that is
English practice YouTube channels. So for example, you take this video here.
It has gained over 2.1 million views and it's pretty simple. Two characters are
having a conversation in English with on-screen text so that viewers can
practice while watching. And there are two popular ways to make videos like
this that can be done 100% for free. The first is to use AI images to show a
story of characters having a conversation while doing something
specific like studying or ordering coffee at a cafe. As you can see, these
videos are getting hundreds of thousands to millions of views. And the second
popular way to do it is to create an AI image of hosts in a podcast-like setting
and to then have them chat to each other. For example, you take this
monetized channel that's making videos in this style. It's pretty new, less
than 4 months old. Yet, if we pop it into SocialBlade, you'll see that in the
past 30 days, it has gained over 2.4 million views and it's gained over
90,000 subscribers in just the past month, which is kind of crazy, right?
Especially when you consider that YouTube's monetization program, the
partner program, on average pays it creators $3 to $7 per 1,000 views for
long- form videos, otherwise known as RPM. Which means if you do the math, we
can estimate that this channel was earning a very nice monthly income from
YouTube ads. Because as I said before, this channel, it's monetized, which I'm
sure will confuse a lot of people because they're probably thinking,
"Okay, Sarah, but how can you be so confident of that?" And it's a good
question. So, I will tell you how I know. So, it's because this channel has
an optional paid membership, which by the way, several subscribers have indeed
joined and are actually paying for. And well, this is an optional fan funding
feature. And fun fact, fan funding features like this are only available to
channels who have been accepted into the YouTube monetization program. And you
know what? I'm sure that there are some eagle-eyed subscribers out there that
have probably noticed that every channel I've shown you in this video has some
sort of fan funding feature like memberships or super thanks turned on,
which means we know that they are monetized. And so now I'm sure a lot of
people are thinking, well, okay, Sarah, that's great and all, but how can I
start my own channel like these myself even if I am broke? And that's also a
good question. And to do it, you just need to follow this simple workflow here
using these 100% free tools. And first up, you'll need to pick an AI chatbot
that has a free plan. And currently, the four biggest most popular ones, Chat
GPT, Claude, Gemini, and Grock, all have free plans. You can pick any of them
that you like and get them to write your script for you. Because these videos are
supposed to be simple and basic, you don't need the latest and greatest AI
models to help you write these scripts. The free models are more than adequate.
Then next up, you'll need to generate images for your videos. And probably the
best tool right now for generating them for free is with Google Flow. This is
Google's all-in-one tool that lets you access their video and image AI models,
including their advanced nano banana image models without watermarks, even if
you just have a free account, not a paid account. Like I generated these images
here using a free Google account. And look, I was able to download them in 2K
with no watermark, no problem. So then, next up, you will need an AI voice for
each of your characters. And you'll need to edit your videos together, too. And
ClipChamp, Microsoft's free AI powered video editor, is great for both of these
things because inside, if you start a new project, you'll see that it actually
has a free in-built AI voice generator with lots of voices to choose from. So
you can just choose a voice for each character and then generate their audio
using this for free. Then you can upload your images that you made with Nano
Banana inside of Google Flow and add in captions using Clip Champ's free
built-in AI subtitle generator to create your own videos. Super cool, right? So
then onto the next AI side hustle which you can start 100% for free. And that is
creating an AI print on demand store. And I have to admit this is a side
hustle that is near and dear to my heart. Because as my longtime
subscribers know, I personally do have a successful AI print on demand Etsy
business. The way it works is pretty simple. First, I use AI tools to create
clothing designs. Then I come to online print on demand apps like Printify which
have a huge range of blank products in the catalog. I then just pick a product,
upload my design I created onto it, and I list it for sale on Etsy for a markup
price. And then each time somebody comes to my store and buys, say, a t-shirt for
$20, my print on demand app will charge me the manufacturing cost, which for
this t-shirt is about $9. And then the print shop will print my design onto the
t-shirt, package it up, and ship it out to the customer. And then once the
customer gets their shirt, Etsy will pay me the $20 minus their processing fees,
meaning I get to keep the rest as profit. It's a great source of income
for me. But I've got to be honest, as somebody who actually makes money doing
this, starting this, and running this, it ain't free. Nope. Like, don't get me
wrong, the AI tools themselves can be free. You can use any of the free
versions of AI chat bots like ChatGpt, Gemini, or Claude to brainstorm design
ideas and slogans. And you can create images for free to print using Google's
all-in-one media generator, Google Flow. Since, as I already mentioned, this lets
you generate images right now watermark free using their Net Banana AI image
models. And Net Banana is actually the main image model I use for my top
selling designs. So yeah, the AI tools themselves can be 100% free. But Etsy
itself has a $15 onetime setup fee. So while it's pretty cheap to open up a
store, it technically isn't free. And also, when someone buys, say, a t-shirt
from me for $20, Etsy won't give me the money until I've shipped the t-shirt. So
I have to be able to pay the $9 printing cost for the t-shirt up front. So, to
start an Etsy print on demand store, you do need either a credit card or a little
bit of startup cash on hand to do this. Which is why I think that Printify
pop-up store is actually pretty cool. If you want to start an AI print on demand
store, but you have $0 and no credit card, because this is Printify's own
free print on demand store creator, you just go through the steps of setting up
a store and in less than a minute, you will have your own online print on
demand store for free. The way it works is that once you have your storefront
set up, you can then go through any of the products that Printify has in their
catalog and then you can add your own designs onto it and list them for sale.
And anytime a customer buys an item from you, Printify will pay the cost to make
and ship the item and they'll send you the profit as a royalty check. So yeah,
it's 100% free. You don't even need a credit card. However, I can imagine a
lot of people are now thinking, "Well, okay, Sarah, but how do I now get
customers into my store? How can I get people to actually buy my products if
I'm not paying for any traffic or marketing? That's a good question. And
honestly, I reckon for stores like this, it is to use free techniques to turn
your products into viral social media posts. So, you take this print on demand
store here on Instagram. It's selling funny t-shirts, and it's been going
viral with its funny videos advertising its t-shirts. Each of these videos has
been posted within the past few weeks, and each of them have gained millions of
views. Kind of crazy, right? And you can absolutely make videos like this for
free. Let me show you how. So, first I came to Google's all-in-one media
generator, Google Flow, and I uploaded my design onto it. And I asked it to
make me a hyper realistic photo of someone wearing this design on the back
of a t-shirt and selected it to use the Nano Banana Pro model in a 9x6 image
ratio. And out of the photos that it made for me, this one was my favorite.
So, I downloaded it at an upscaled 2K resolution. Then, I created a new
project within Google Flow and I uploaded my photo and in the creation
settings, I set it to video mode and I chose frame mode. Then, in the video
model settings, I set it to Google's latest video model, Omni, and I set it
to be 8 seconds, and I explained what I wanted the video to do. Now, on the free
plan, you only get 50 AI credits a day, so videos can chew through your usage
fast, which is why I tried out all of these models for you to figure out which
one was the best value, and Omni was my personal favorite for these types of
videos. Like, check it out. This here is the video that it made for me. It's
pretty cool. So yes, while you don't have enough free credits to say make a
fulllength YouTube video for short viral clips like this just to advertise your
products, this works great. But yes, onto the next AI side hustle. But first,
all of this talk of starting online print on demand stores can't help but
remind me of today's video sponsor, me. Yes, because you see, since there are so
many shady YouTube sponsors these days, if I can't find a sponsor I 100% trust
for a video, then I'll just sponsor it myself, which I'm doing today to let you
know that if you're unaware, I actually have a free ebook, which is the six-step
process that I use to research top selling designs, how I use AI tools to
make them, and also how I optimize products to get free traffic on Etsy to
get sales without having to pay for marketing. So, if you'd like to get a
copy of my ebook, I will include a link to it in the video description below.
Plus, I also have the Ecom Clubhouse, my course, where I share tutorials on the
exact AI prompts and workflows that I use in my AI print on demand business to
research winning products, create designs for it, and then how I also get
free Etsy SEO and recommendation traffic. And as an extra bonus, I will
give all new readers today an optional onetime coupon that lets you join the
Ecom Clubhouse for 7 days for just $1. But yes, sponsorship over. Now, back to
the video. And onto the next AI side hustle that you can start for free. And
this one is just a quick one. It is starting your own AI research agency.
Yep. So, for example, check out this one here on Fiverr. They offer simple
research services for new Etsy stores like identifying the best listing title
keywords and doing competitor research. And check it out, their average order is
$101 and they have five orders in the queue. And here's the thing, this is
just one of many other successful freelancers and agencies offering
similar services. Basically, there are lots of people out there who want to
start online stores and businesses, but doing the technical research is the part
that they find boring. And so, they're willing to pay for other people to do it
for them. And here's the thing, right? If you come to any of the major AI chat
bots, their free models can easily take any product that a client gives you that
they plan to sell on Etsy and do research to identify things like the
best title and keywords the seller should use to get the most search engine
traffic and who their competitors are as well. And I'll tell you what, there are
lots of e-commerce platforms out there that people need research for, not just
Etsy. People are creating stores on places like Tik Tok, Amazon, and eBay,
too. And plus, people also need research for social media apps such as YouTube.
And as you can see, people are paying good money to have others do this
research for them, like researching YouTube titles, that sort of thing. So,
this also works for a lot of different websites, not just Etsy. Okay, let's now
talk about the next AI side hustle that you can start for free, and that is
creating themed puzzle books. Yep, people love buying puzzle books with
specific themes and aesthetics, such as seasonal activity books or activity
books aimed at niche hobbies or niche demographics, things like that. So, if
you spot a theme that people haven't made an activity book for yet, this
could be a great opportunity to make it and sell it because, as I said, they're
popular. Take this one aimed specifically at the demographic of girls
8 to 12. Well, if we copy its bestseller rank and pop it into an Amazon sales
estimator, you can see it estimates it's selling 86 to 124 copies per day. And
here's the thing. While the theming of course changes from book to book, the
puzzles don't. The puzzles generally just stay the same. They feature word
searches, sedukas, mazes, snaking word searches, logic grid puzzles, across
puzzles, crossword crisscross puzzles. And here's the thing, right? all of the
major AI models that have a free option, they can make these puzzles for you. The
main issue, of course, is that the free accounts all have smaller daily usage
limits than the paid versions. So, to save time, split up your puzzles across
them all. For example, you could get Gemini to make your mazes for you, and
you could get Grock to make the Seduku puzzles for you, and you can get Chat
GBT to make your word search puzzles for you, and you can get Claude to create
your logic grid puzzles for you. If you take advantage of all of their free
daily usage tokens, you can potentially generate enough puzzles for a book in
just one day. But yes, either way, once you have all of your puzzles, you can
use a trick that very few people seem to even know about, which is the Canva to
PDF trick. You can use this to turn the PDFs that your AI models have given you
into a book that you can actually sell on Amazon. Yep. So, Canva, as my
longtime subscribers know, is an AI powered graphics design app. There are
two versions of it, a free version or a pro version. For this trick, you can use
the free version or you can click my affiliate link in the description below
to get a free 30-day trial account, the pro version with all of their tools.
Either way, basically, very few people know this, but Canva actually lets you
upload PDS into it, and it will convert it into a design file that you can then
edit using Canvas drag and drop design text elements and graphics. It's very
cool. You can, of course, get AI to make any of these changes for you rather than
do them yourself, but that would use quite a bit of tokens. So, honestly, if
you're on a budget and you have zero dollars to spend, then I think it's
smart to save your token usage to get the AI models to create the puzzles for
you and then make any small design tweaks and changes yourself manually
inside of Canva. And then once you have your finished theme puzzle book, you can
then download it as a PDF. And then you can come to Amazon's free
self-publishing service, KDP, and upload your PDF. Amazon will then turn it into
a book listing. And then each time a customer buys your book, the print
service will print your book and ship it out to the customer. They'll remove
their printing fees, and then they will send you the rest of the profits as a
royalty check. As I said, this entire process is free. You can start even if
you have zero dollars. So, onto the next side hustle. But first, can I please ask
a quick favor? If you are enjoying this video and it is helping you, please
consider giving it a like because I've recently had a huge influx of people who
hate AI, subscribe to my channel and some of them are watching my videos just
to click dislike on them, which is why anytime viewers do take a moment to
click like or leave a kind comment. It genuinely means a lot. So, thank you if
you choose to support the channel. But for now, back to the video. So, on to
our next free AI side hustle. And did you know that custom presentations and
slideshows are in super high demand right now? Like take this creator. Their
average gig price is $222 and they have 12 orders in the queue,
which if you do the math, that comes out to an average expected revenue of over
$2,000, which I think is kind of nuts because it's not just one creator
crushing it. There is such a high demand for these that lots of creators,
including new ones, are earning hundreds to thousands each week doing this. The
huge demand comes from two sources. First, there are just actually a lot of
really large companies out there that like to use these services to create
slideshows for their internal meetings. These are actually really great clients
to have because they tend to become repeat buyers. But also too, there are
lots of AI startups right now buying these to use as pitch presentations for
investors. And as I said, you can use free AI tools to make your own super
cool slideshows that you can sell, too. So, first, we're going to be using the
free version of Google's AI, Gemini, which is actually really good at coming
up with a base slideshow template aesthetic. You can just tell it what you
want it to include and how many slides, and it'll create a base design for you
that you can download as a PDF file. Then, next, we're going to come back to
the AI power graphics app, Canva. Now, as I said earlier, Canva has a free
version and a paid pro version that includes their AI, and we will be using
this AI, so you will need a pro account, but you can still actually get this for
free because they do have a free 30-day trial account for it. So, I will include
my affiliate link to this in the description below. Then, come to their
AI and upload the PDF presentation that Gemini made for you and get it to use
this as inspiration to make its own custom presentation for you. It won't
remake it exactly, but it can use it to make its own improved version that you
can then actually edit and customize using Canvas own built-in editable drag
and drop design elements. And adding animations to each slide is actually
pretty simple, too. You just click on a slide and click animate and click the
magic animate button for the entire slideshow. Then select the style that
you want Canvas AI to animate it in. And then that's it. It'll add an automations
for each element for you. Nice. So, here's the next side hustle on our list,
and this one is just another quick one. It is starting and running your own AI
classes. Yep. Business Insider recently interviewed a 27year-old called Derek
who does this. He does all sorts of things with one of his projects recently
being helping a woman use AI to digitize her late brother's diaries using AI
tools like AI LLM chat bots such as Chat GPT and Claude. He's charging $50 an
hour and he works anywhere from 4 to 12 hours a week and he's got three steady
clients. And so, you know, think about it, right? That's an extra $200 to $600
a week, which is pretty cool. But at this point, I can imagine you're
probably thinking, "Well, okay, Sarah, but how can I get my own clients?" It's
a fair question, and actually, he has found getting clients pretty simple. All
he does is print and hang up posters in places like cafes advertising his
surface, which of course would be very easy to create using, you guessed it,
AI. I used Nano Banana Pro for free inside of Google Flow to make a poster
for me and it did it no problem. So yes, if you have AI skills, then you can
monetize them by teaching others how to use it, too. So then onto the next side
hustle, but you can start 100% for free. And this one is pretty interesting. It
is creating your own virtual AI fashion models. Because you see, check this out,
right? There are so many virtual fashion model accounts going viral on Instagram
right now. And they all have the same hook. They have virtual fashion models
showing off different outfits. And the short little videos they're posting are
consistently gaining hundreds of thousands to millions of views. People
love it. For example, you take this video here. It was posted about three
weeks ago and it's already had over 4.7 million views and people in the comments
are directly asking, "Hey, what clothes are they wearing?" They want direct
links to where they can go to actually buy them. So, you can see the
monetization strategy, right? Make videos of virtual models wearing real
clothes, then post links in your bio to where people can go buy them. And
probably the easiest way to do this for free is to promote clothes through
affiliate links and earn commissions. For example, you take Amazon, right? Not
only is there obviously tons of different clothes on here that you can
promote, but they also have an affiliate program that almost anyone can join
called Amazon Associates. And when you do, you'll be able to create a referral
link which tracks sales for any product on the site that you choose. The
commissions are small per item, but as you can see, they can add up fast, and
that's because you don't just earn a commission from somebody buying the item
that you directly link to. You earn a commission from anything that they add
to their cart within 24 hours after clicking your link. So, if somebody
clicks on your link and then doesn't buy it, but then goes and shops for
groceries, you'll get a commission on all of the groceries that they would
normally just be buying anyway. So, that's how commissions on here can add
up fast. You'll also need a website to link to in your Instagram bio, which
includes affiliate links to each of the clothes you promote. And as you can see,
a lot of creators are creating websites using a free tool called Beacons. They
then include their affiliate link to their Amazon storefront on here, which
lists all of the clothes that they have their virtual models wearing. But of
course, the next question is, okay, but how do you make the virtual model clips?
And it's a good question. And to make these for free, we can again use
Google's all-in-one media generator tool that we've been using previously in this
video, Flow. You can log in and create a new project and upload some photos of
clothes you've chosen to promote into it and use the latest pro version of its
image generation model currently Nano Banana to create a hyper realistic photo
for you. So I of course did that here and out of all the images it made for
me. This one was my favorite. So I downloaded it. Then I reuploaded it into
a new project prompting the AI to turn it into a clip of them posing. And in
the generation settings, I switched it to make a video instead of an image. And
I only made one video because, as I said earlier, making videos choose through
your daily credits quite fast. So, I wouldn't be using this to animate an
entire long form YouTube video. But, as you can see, for short little viral
content clips like these, it works great and is very cool. So then, if you'd like
to learn about even more ways that people are using AI tools to start
online businesses, then be sure to watch my next video here on screen, and I will
see you in the next VR.
