How much money did you make this last
year?
>> The law firm last year we did two
billion in fees. Most people stopped.
Most people are satiable. And somehow
for me it really wasn't about money. It
was just about winning.
>> What are some of those things that you
have done differently from the 99%.
>> You have to look for luck. You have to
look for opportunity. There's all sorts
of ways to find luck. The main way to
find luck is
>> you went headto-head with some of the
biggest companies in the world. Did you
ever worry about any of those big
companies coming after you? If you feel
righteous in what you do, and I do, no,
I've taken on the biggest ones.
>> What have you learned about negotiating
with these billion-dollar companies in
the courtroom?
>> The only thing they understand is money.
They're not going to do it because it's
right. So, what I've learned is this.
Don't bring a knife to a gunfight. Bring
a [ __ ] Uzi.
>> John, if me and you died tomorrow and
you had one more guiding principle to
leave with the younger generation to
take with them for the rest of their
lives, what would that be?
>> Golden rule.
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we have an incredible
guest for you guys today. Our great
friend, the legend, the billionaire, one
of the richest lawyers in the entire
world, Mr. John Morgan, the founder of
Morgan and Morgan, one of the biggest
law firms in the world and the biggest
personal injury law firm in North
America. you guys. John, it's great to
be here with you today.
>> It's good to see you again. I've seen
you a lot since I saw you the first
time.
>> Well, and I think over 60 million people
by now have seen that clip that we did
and so it's I think that I can say it
for everybody here at the table. A lot
of people watching may have seen it, but
it's one of our favorite interviews that
we've ever done.
>> Thank you.
>> So, I want to get things started by
going right back to 2005, right? when
you're initially getting ready to start
Morgan and Morgan, before you have a
thousand attorneys working for you,
before you have, you know, recovered
tens of billions of dollars for your
clients. Uh, for starters, how much
money did you make this last year?
>> You mean in 2024?
>> Yes.
I'm not exactly sure because uh some of
it was capital gains and some of it was
but like I said in that first interview,
I looked at what LeBron made and and
LeBron would rather be me than him every
day.
>> Yeah.
>> So I don't want to give I mean I've
watched your clips now and it seems too
braggadocious to
>> Yeah.
>> give these numbers.
>> But the law firm though, you guys
>> Oh, the law firm. the law firm. We we
do, you know, we do last year we did two
billion in fees and our margins are
high.
>> Very good. But back to 2005 when I first
initially interviewed you, you said
something that has stuck with me to this
day and it's I'm getting the chance to
ask you about it right now. You set out
to build the Google of law firms. Can
you break down your vision back in 2005
before you built, you know, this company
and what it's turned into today? What
was your mindset coming into law and
building this empire that you've built
now?
>> Well, the first thing I did is I had to
get rid of partners. And one thing I
tell your people is there are visions,
there's visionaries
and there's vision makers. Between the
visionary and the vision maker, there
are vision blockers that are stopping
you from making the vision. I had two
partners who did not want to grow, did
not want to, they wanted to hold the
money. And so in 2003, the firm was
called Morgan, Colin, and Gilbert. And
in 2003, I said to both of them, I said,
"Look, they wanted me to close
Jacksonville. They wanted to close
Naples and just kind of keep all the
money here in Orlando, Tampa." So I
bought them out.
You know, one time I read a thing from
Jeff Bezos. Sometimes you need to pay
people to go away.
And I've done that many times. Pay
people to go away. So I said in 2003
they were wanting to close. I said, "Why
don't I just buy you all out?" And one
guy said, "Okay, okay, okay, okay." And
I bought them both out. They had 27% of
the firm. I bought them both out for
less than $2 million.
And then that was that. I kept their
name on it for a while because they
stayed on working.
But in 2005, they came in and said,
"We're going to go start our own firm."
I said, "Okay." And then from that point
forward, I was untethered by the vision
blockers.
By the way, Jacksonville makes a
fortune. Naples makes a fortune. They
wanted to close them. They wanted to
close them. And so once I got rid of the
partners, the dead weight, it's it's
hard to swim enough, but when you put a
weights with balls and chains on your
ankles, it's really [ __ ] hard to
swim. So I cut those two off with chain
cutters. And then I started going and
getting bigger and bigger and bigger. I
didn't have the Google idea in 2005. I
think I had the Google idea in 2009.
That's when I wrote a speech called uh
uh the 21st century law firm. What's it
going to be like when there's in the
21st century? And then I started having
this vision about the Google law firm.
If Google was a law firm, what would it
do? The answer was it would be
everywhere for everyone. It would be
onestop shop for everything. And if I
didn't handle the cases, I'd refer it to
you and you and you and you. For
example, there are certain cases that we
don't handle, but we refer it out to
people who do and our margins on that is
like 85%. And the clients are better
because we're giving them to the law
firm who really does that type of work
that I don't do. And so that was the
thought about the the Google law firm
and then I started building it in
earnest in 2009 and here we are today.
>> You know, it kind of reminds us it
reminds me of we've got a great friend
of ours. He's an incredible internet
marketer. His name's Joshua Crisp and
he's got this saying of an acronym WW AD
whenever he looks at businesses. What
would Apple do? You know, Apple's a
trillion dollar company and how are they
able to sell their phones or computers
at, you know, hundreds or even $1,000
more than their next competitor? Like
what are they doing with the packaging
and whatnot? What are they doing with
the pricing and whatnot? And so, and you
took the inspiration from kind of
Google. So in in a sense you studied
those greats even though they weren't
directly in your industry to model that
greatness and kind of go out there and
build it yourself.
>> Google and Uber because part of my
business is referring the cases out like
Uber doesn't have cabs. Uber Uber
doesn't have drivers.
They they have people they send it out
to. But the but my Uber version once I
get the case and I refer it out instead
of having some you know who who knows
driving the car I got you know I got
rowdy Bush driving my cars I'm giving
them to the best lawyers in America. So,
if you call me and give a and ask for a
case that I don't do or that I'm not in
that geographic area, I find my Uber
driver, which is one of the premier
lawyers in that country or that state,
and I get it to that person, and that
business is getting bigger and bigger
and bigger and bigger and bigger, and
that's and the margins on that part of
the business is astronomical.
John, out of all the lawyers out there,
you make a lot of money, but why did you
want to become a lawyer?
>> Well, here's what happened. I'm 19 years
old. I'm at the University of Florida.
My dad calls me. He says, Tim, who was
my brother, has been in an accident.
He's working at Disney World. He's
paralyzed from the neck down. He is a
C6C7 quadriplegic. Can move nothing.
you know, we're very close. And my other
brother Mike was there with me. He was a
freshman at Florida UF. I'm a And so we
jumped in our car. We drove down the
street. We went into the Catholic
church. We wrote ca we cried. And then
we uh lit candles. That's what Catholics
do, I guess. And we then drove
home and went to the down the street
here to Lucern. And there he was
spinning
360 on a gurnie. And it was like, "Holy
[ __ ]
we our mother had left a long time ago,
so there was no mom around and my dad
was kind of a, you know, we loved him
dearly, but he wasn't." So I kind of
took charge of the whole thing and we
were doing everything, man. We were we
got water from Lurards, you know, where
the miracles were with Mary up here.
We're rubbing, you know, we're rubbing
Lurard's water on his legs and we're
praying and praying and praying and I
got mixed up in the whole thing. in the
in the medical treatment and the case
against Disney because it happened at
Disney. What happened is the question is
was there a third party case? Was it or
was it just a workers's comp case? At
the end of the day, I believe that we
hired the wrong lawyer because we didn't
know. We were poor people. We didn't
know who [ __ ] it up, I think. And
number two, Disney, even though it
happened on the job, treated Tim like he
was a Taliban. They they would just
fought and fought and fought and fought
and fought to the point where if it's a
comp case, as long as you give somebody
a job back, there's not a case. So, they
said, "Okay, we'll give you a job back.
We'll let you be an operator." He's,
remember, he's in high school. We'll let
you be an operator from 11 at night till
7 in the morning. 18-year-old
quadriplegic. He regained some of his
stuff. He became a super quad so he
could drive a car. But the way Disney
fought him,
I became enraged.
When we checked him out of the hospital,
I walked into the doctor's office and I
said, "Uh, what's the prognosis?"
And he said, "I don't think he'll make
it to 30." I stood up. I said, "You're
wrong."
And he was. He died last year at 65.
But then
I couldn't get Disney out of my mind.
And I knew what I was going to do. I was
going to come back
and all these [ __ ] like Disney
and insurance companies like Disney and
were treating people like that. I was
going to I was going to represent the
Tims of the world. I didn't even know
there was money in it. I didn't care.
And and so I had a lot of job offers. I
was president of this thing at
University of Florida called Florida
Blue Key, which was the biggest biggest
thing in Florida. All these lawyers are
trying to hire me. And uh I said no. I
said, "I want to do personal injury."
And that's all I did. I only I only
applied to personal injury firms, and
that's all I've ever done. Listen, I had
a case one time against Coca-Cola where
I handed them their ass, and they had
they tried to hire me. I said, "I'm
never going to [ __ ] represent a
corporation or insurance company. Never.
Never."
So, I was uh Tim's terrible day became
my career. And then later in life, like
I said, Tim became a super quad. and Tim
ran my call center
uh and built the business with me and at
the end of every day Tim would come up
with his German Shepherd Sam and I'd be
with my brother and that's how I ended
every day.
>> Did did you ever worry about any of
those big companies coming after you
because you went headto-head with some
of the biggest companies in the world?
>> No, I didn't. You know, my favorite
story from the Bible is David and
Goliath. And you know, the bigger they
are, the harder they fall. And you know,
I got a hell of a slingshot and a damn
good aim. And if you got the facts on
your side, if you if you think you're
right, if you feel righteous
in what you do, and I do,
you know, no, I've taken on the biggest
ones.
>> Something I find fascinating is you look
at a company like Disney, you know, they
have hundreds of millions of dollars.
They're an incredibly successful
company. and you look at a situation
like your brothers where they could more
than hap like they could more than
easily just compensate him and fairly
and go about you know your separate
ways. What do you think? What have you
learned about negotiating with these
billion-dollar companies in the
courtroom?
>> Well, let me tell you another thing that
makes it even worse. You know why why he
broke his neck? A little girl had they
thought had drowned in the Polynesian
lagoon. He got up on a floating raft and
he dove in looking for he was looking to
rescue a girl and there was a table that
was tying down these little boats, these
aqualarchs and he hit his head on the on
the table and was paralyzed immediately.
So that makes it even worse. You would
think that Disney even would have said,
"Hey, even though it's a comp case, even
though there's no third party liability,
we're not going to we're not going to
make you come be a operator at 11 in the
morning." And but that's just how they
that's just how they operate. I gave a
speech one time to like 2,000 insurance
people. And then I started the speech by
saying, "I want to tell you all how to
put John Morgan out of business." And my
whole speech was
and the basically gist of it was just do
the right thing.
And when I ended the speech, I said,
"Listen, I've given you all the secret
about how to put me out of business. And
you know why I'm not worried about it?
Because the people you work for are
constitutionally incapable of doing the
right thing." And I looked at them all.
I said, "And by the way, all you all
that work for them, they don't give a
[ __ ] about you either. They don't give a
[ __ ] about your families either. They
will cut your [ __ ] throat as soon as
they have to to make their profit or get
their CEO a bonus. I said, "If any of
you [ __ ] are looking for a job, I'm
hiring." I got four people out of that
out of that speech.
And the funny thing is, they didn't know
this,
but the but the hotel that they did this
the this the event in, I own the [ __ ]
hotel. So, I said, "Hey, by the way,
thank you all for coming. I own this
hotel thanks to you all.
>> Yeah. And so you were asking him about
negotiating with the billion dollar
companies.
>> Exactly. What what you know, you've been
in these courtrooms with Coca-Cola, you
know, Disney. What have you learned
about negotiating with these
billion-dollar companies?
>> The only thing they understand is money.
The only thing they understand is money.
They're not going to do it because it's
right. They they're they the only thing
they understand is the bottom line
money.
And the reason it's been so important
for me to build the firm I did the way I
did is because if you don't have the
firepower,
if you go to forthepeople.com and look
at my verdicts and settlements,
especially verdicts, this is when I went
and got a verdict. Three weeks ago,
company offered me a million dollars.
Former state senator lost his son a
million dollars. They finally offered at
the end. Guess what? I got hundred
million. And they'll next time they see
me,
it won't be as easy for they they'll pay
me more. You got to So what what I
learned and what I still learn is they
only understand money. I'm on that
opioids case. I've been representing
states and cities all around. Do you
think those opioid people are giving
this money up easily? No. But we have
been fighting this thing for 10 years
and we're on the big case up in up in
Cleveland, too. It's all about the
bottom line. It's all about the money.
They're never going to do something just
because it's right. So, what I've
learned is this.
Don't bring a knife to a gunfight. Bring
a [ __ ] Uzi.
I love it. uh you know, you set out to
build the Google of law firms. And so a
business story that I love and that we
talk about often is the McDonald's, the
McDonald's brothers. And Ray Croc came
in wanting to scale that business up to
the moon and they were super concerned
about the quality of the product going
from franchise to franchise. How did you
ensure expanding your law firm across
the country that it was going to uphold
that same quality and care that you do
on cases that you would personally work
on? All right, that's a great question
because consistency
is like I said, I want to do it my way,
the right way every day. I brought a
really smart guy in to do to help me
build my vision. The first thing I told
him when he came to me, I said, I want
to I want to see transparency and
automation. That's what I want. And we
kept going back and forth and back and
forth. He's trying to get me to me a lot
of different ways because look, every
lawyer's different. Everybody's got
different needs. Everybody has a
different business than my business. You
might need to settle a case now. Not
because it's what it's worth, because
you need money. You need your bonus. So,
what we did and and I will say this, I
didn't want to do it. He pushed me and
pushed me and pushed me. He said the
only way I can do it. I built my own
software called Litify.
And I built Litify, which allowed me to
see everything that everybody's doing in
real time all day long. And then I got
operators, operation people looking over
these 1300 lawyers to make sure it's
being done my way, the right way every
day. I sold I sold 60% of Litify to a
company called Bessmer for like the
valuation like 600 million. I still own
40%.
And so Litify
and that was a big jump because you know
one time I was trying to build a a
software with some people. We were
pumping money pumping money was called
Smart Advocate. I'm just throwing money
money and it wasn't happening. One time
I'm down in New Orleans with the with
the programmers a bunch of guys from
India and we had this dinner down in
down in New Orleans. And when we get out
of the dinner, the main programmer looks
at me and goes, "Okay, now where do we
get the pussy?"
I'm like, "Fuck, these are the," you
know, but but so I'd already had a bad
I'd already had a bad I'd already had a
bad taste in my mouth about building a
[ __ ] software. So to build a new
software, you know, where do we get the
[ __ ] I'm like, "These are my geniuses
from India." And so, uh, so I'd already
had the bad taste from Smart Advocate.
Jerry Parker, to his credit, one day I
said, "Yeah, this is bullshit." And he
gave him my money back because he
thought he had something. Uh, so it was
with great trepidation that I built
Litify. But now Litify is not just used
by me, it's used by law firms all over
America. They're using John Morgan's
software. And if they don't, they're
stupid.
>> So you made your competitors your
customers.
>> Yeah. I listen, my competitors aren't my
competitors. My competitors are my
friends. I I've never looked at it as a
competitor as a competitor. I mean, you
run faster when you run against somebody
fast.
You know, if you put and if you put a if
you put a wolf behind you, you'll really
run fast. If a wolf's chasing, you'll
run a lot faster.
>> And I want to dive a little bit deeper
into that about, you know, Jack brought
up a great point about maintaining the
quality as you scale. That's a big thing
is that people they grow too big. They
don't have that quality control to
ensure that that top level care is is
going around all the place. But when did
you set out that because okay, you got
the deadwood out of the way and you're
going to go I'm going to build Morgan to
Morgan, right? How did you initially
know that you were going to go from
Orlando to Tampa to all the cities in
Florida and eventually going just
completely national to where you're all
over the place?
>> Well, you don't. You don't. It's like a
It's like to me it's like pole
vaultting. You know, the bar is down
here. You can basically jump over it by
yourself and then you raise the bar and
you and you clear that bar and then you
clear that bar and you clear that bar
and now you're up at 17 feet and you
just keep, you know, and and and you
either want to keep clearing the bar or
stop. Most people stop. Most people are
satiable.
99% of everybody out there has a
satiable appetite. they get to enough,
that's enough. And somehow for me, it
really wasn't about money. It was just
about winning. I never I sold yellow
pages once upon a time before I went to
law school. And I say this with all, you
know, modesty and trying to, you know,
tweak all my yellow page. I'm the
greatest yellow page seller in the
history of AT&T. I could sell the [ __ ]
out of those things. You know why? I
believed it. But you know what drove me?
If you every day you had to post your
numbers when you sold yellow pages and
every year every day they had the top
seller and the bottom seller and they
had the pictures of number one, two, and
three. I was always [ __ ] number one.
I was more worried about my picture
being on the wall and being number one
than the money. But because my picture
was on the wall, because I was number
one, I made the money. That's what kind
of drove me. And that's what kind of
drove me here. It's like, you know, I
don't golf, I don't hunt, and I don't
fish. You know, I I hunt money and fun.
That's that's what I'd hunt. And u So,
look, when I first got out, if somebody
said to me, "John, we're going to give
you $100,000 a year and tie it to COLA."
I'd have probably I didn't have I didn't
have any idea about this. I had no idea.
So, it wasn't, you know, people, is
this, was this your big vision? Hell no.
I just kept clearing bars and what's the
next? What's the next? What's the next?
What's the next? When you're when you're
scaling, so you have your first location
in Orlando.
How do you go about scaling from one
location to the next? Is it about like
what do most entrepreneurs kind of get
wrong in this process? Is it about
bringing on the right team to help you
scale or is it really about bringing on
the technology and the and the
operations as you say in terms of the
processes that really kind of pull it
all together? What what what allowed you
to scale in that way that you know most
other law offices can't?
>> Well, you know, one thing I had an
advantage
when I first started advertising there
wasn't that much advertising going.
So, I had an advantage kind of like like
Bill Gates. If Bill Gates was born
today, he wouldn't be Bill Gates because
it already been invented. So when I
started advertising, people that would
couldn't because they didn't have the
money and people that could wouldn't
because it was a stigma to advertise.
So, I had this whole, you know, I was
like a fullback that did they did a draw
play on the 10 and I go through a hole
and it was kind of a decoy and the next
thing you know I'm rumbling to the end
zone because nobody was guarding me,
nobody's watching, nobody saw me coming.
If I started today, it'd be very, very
hard to do what I do. That's why I told
y'all that day, I don't pat myself on
the back. Timing is everything.
And so, that gave me a tremendous
opportunity. The second thing I did is
the way I've always looked at my
businesses, all my my track I just
yesterday and the day before I was
visiting all my attractions and
restaurants and and I I bought a mall
recently up in Myrtle Beach. I went to
look at my new the mall I'm building
now. I got this futuristic mall I want
to build like a mall from the you know
20 21st century mall. And so what I do
is it it goes like this. I always
envision like a teacup. I start pouring
money into the teacup. the teacup gives
full. When the teacup starts pouring
over, when I'm getting a diminishing
returns, I go to another place with
another teacup. So, the teacup I felt
was I'd kind of maxed out in Orlando. Am
I going to get I wasn't growing. So, I
go to Tampa, put another teacup down.
Now, when I taken that teacup, I'm
pouring my profits. This is what a lot
of people my partners didn't want. They
didn't want to pour the profits back in
to a new teacup, but they did for Tampa.
And then I got that teacup full. And
then I went to Jacksonville and started
filling that teacup. But as I'm filling
that teacup, I got to fill it with the
money from these two teacups. But I'm
young, so I don't care. I don't care
because I'm looking for the for the
endgame. And then I went to Naples.
That's why they finally said, "We want
to stop. We We don't want to pour the We
don't want to fill the teacups." And
they said, "Hey, you know, buy you out
for like$ 1.7.8 million."
I'm like I mean immediately. So there
was no master plan. The only plan was to
keep growing on my tombstone.
It will say either two things.
I told you I was sick or grow or die.
Grow or die is what how people know John
Morgan. When I see people in my
industry, they'll say if they don't say
for the people, they say grow or die.
Yeah, it's uh I think it was the founder
or CEO of GE says that the day you begin
the day you stop growing is the day you
begin to die on the vine. Talk to us
about that philosophy that you have grow
or die.
>> Well, the philosophy is this. If you're
not growing, you are dying. And if your
goal is not to to to have it all and
look and you know you're never going to
have it all, but that's got to be your
goal. Robert Go Roberto Goazetta was the
president of CocaCola
and he lived in Atlanta. That's where
Coke was. And as Roberto would come down
his staircase every day in Atlanta with
his air tie and Brion suits, he'd
tighten his tie up and he'd look in the
mirror and he'd say in the mirror to
himself, "Roberto, today is the day you
put PepsiCo out of business." That was
his mentality.
Now, one time I gave a speech to these
all these lawyers and I said, "Listen,
my goal is not to have some business.
It's to have all the business
and that you all will all work for me
and we're all going to do very well
together." That's that, you know, and
and I really think that way. I know it
can't be that way, but if you don't
think like that,
then you're never going to you're never
going to clear
the next bar. So your goals have to be
outlandish.
And if and if you just get half that way
there, people always say sky's the
limit. Sky's the limit. Sky ain't the
[ __ ] limit. Sky's the beginning.
That's when you pierce,
you know, you haven't even got to Mars
yet. There's a lot past Mars. What's the
last one? What's the last one? I don't
know what the last one is, but
>> Pluto.
>> Pluto. Yeah, I was Pluto. Did you know I
was Pluto at Disney World? So I was
Pluto at Disney World. But so that's how
I think the sky is not the limit. The
sky's is the beginning.
You know, one of my favorite things to
do now whenever I go to uh another city,
whether it's Los Angeles, Boston, New
York, is uh go uh you know, watching for
your logos on all the buses and all the
billboards. I mean,
>> we were at Yankee Stadium and they did
the uh Yeah. like the the the defensive
highlights of the week and it was
presented by Morgan and Morgan.
>> I'm a Yankee sponsor.
>> I I know you are, but but I mean the
branding that you have is something that
I think is is going to be studied. I
mean whether it's buses, billboards,
airport, I mean you are literally
everywhere and
>> omni omnipresent.
>> It's the omniresence and and and you
spent $400 million on advertising this
last year. give me your best branding
advice right now to somebody trying to
build their company and to kind of to
ideally grow and and optimize for that
omniresence like you've done.
>> Well, look, speaking of billboards, I'm
I'm the keynote speaker next year at the
Billboard con big billboard uh national
convention in Dallas because I'm the
number one billboard buyer in America.
But my my it's it's two twoprong. First
of all, when you start, I look at
everything like a dart board. You got
all these different numbers, but where
you want to hit is a bullseye. So, the
first thing I want to do in my business,
whether this these attractions,
wonderworks, I have when I want when I
advertise for Wonderworks, I do it I
call it concentric circles. I want to
hit the bullseye first. So, when I for
my attractions, I advertise with
brochures and I got uh gorilla marketers
right there. and then some billboards as
you're coming into the city. So, I start
in cons I start with the bullseye and
then I kind of move out from the
bullseye, but I'm looking for the
bullseye. Like if you're in Pigeon Forge
where I was yesterday, you know, every
every restaurant around my attraction
has a a card in it, a brochure.
So, same with law. You know, I'm not
going to advertise on the Martha Stewart
show for my customer. There's customers
that I need and the customers are not
going to watch certain shows. Uh, you
know, cheaters. Yeah, that's a good show
for me. But, uh, you know, PBS, no. So,
that's number one. The second thing I
did is I call it the purple cow. And
every Tuesday I have a meeting with my
called the purple cow meeting. We talk
about ideas. Here's how my purple idea
goes. I want to be Let's think this.
There's a thousand cows in a pasture,
okay? and they're all brown. And I walk
out there with you and I and I point to
one. I go, "Look at this cow. Look at
this cow. We're going to come back in
six months and I want to see if you can
pick the ca the brown cow out of the out
of the herd." So I point to a cow and
you you take can't take a picture. You
look at it. It's got a little nick on
its nose, got a little sock on its right
foot, but they're all kind of looking
alike. But okay, you got All right,
we're going to come back in six months.
Do I think you can find the cow? No.
But what if of a thousand cows,
one cow was purple?
And I walked out and I pointed to the
purple cow and I said, "Look, this cow,
you you I've seen enough. You could come
back
in 10 years and pick out the purple cow.
I want to be the purple cow. That's why
you see me with such crazy [ __ ] on
billboards and buses and you know I want
to be the purple cow. You see me at UFC
with on the mats. You see me at WWE TV
Yankee Stadium. You all remember that.
And then I want to be at a place where
people will take a picture. One one year
I went all over America and I made these
boards up, but I put graffiti on my
boards like like they somebody had
climbed up and done it to me. But I did
it to myself.
You ought to see these boards and people
are going nuts. People taking pictures
and sending out the news channel John
has been vandalized. I vandalized
myself. It was like why? Purple cow.
something something that I love is that
you're a true testament of you love or
is that you really understand that where
attention goes revenue flows and if
there's one thing that I think that you
said is that you don't look at
competitors as competitors you look at
them as friends and you try to monetize
every single aspect of the business even
sending them business if you can profit
off of it
>> a lot of business
>> how at what point did you realize that
like look I should vertically integrate
and not only just I I can do all the
jobs myself, but I can actually use my
competitors as resources to continue to
grow my business.
>> Listen, I started an ad agency called
Practice Made Perfect that I started
myself.
Practice Made Perfect was an ad agency
that I went out to have other lawyers to
do and I'd say, "Look, I'll write your
ads. I'll buy your ads. I'll do all this
for you." Why did I do it? Number one,
there was money in that had agency. I
took 15%. But the other thing is I
wanted to have those people sending me
all their mass tors. They didn't do it.
So like when Vio hit, I had practice
made perfect. I said, "Listen, we're
going to drop this in your rotation and
all these practice made perfect clients
that I I made them millionaires because
they they did it my way." But when they
would when would there be a mass tort,
I'd say, "Let's drop this in, send me
the cases." I then with another guy
started part of mass practice made, I
called it mass tors made perfect. We we
did two seminars a year in Vegas
where all of our competitors came and
they're making deals with each other
behind the scenes and some of them
excluded me. I don't care. I was I
controlled the flow. And then what
happened later is I got to a point where
I started expanding. I had all these
practice made perfect clients and my
deal with them was this. I'll never
compete in your market as long as I have
this and I'll never have you sign a
contract. I just gota I just got to earn
your business every single day.
Handshake. And so as I started
expanding,
I was infringing getting close. I had a
one of my practice made perfect clients
was down in West Palm Beach and I kept
saying, "Hey, do you mind if I come
down?" "Oh no, I don't want you to come.
I don't want you to come." So I finally
said, "You know what? I'm gonna sell the
business. I'll sell the business." I did
well, you know, made, you know,
whatever. And but now I'm free. And the
first thing I did when I sold the
business is on Monday I opened up in
West Palm Beach. I'm [ __ ] killing it.
All the money, listen, all the money I
made at practice made perfect, I make
like three or four times that every year
in just West Palm Beach. So, uh, but I
looked at these competitors. I mean,
they would come to my conventions
and network with each other and and if I
got, you know, some, that was fine. And
if they were do excluding me, that was
fine. I believe that rising tides lift
all boats.
And so I've never looked at competitors
as competitors. I've looked at them at
friends and people are going to make me
run faster.
>> There's a there's two ways to build the
biggest building in town. You can either
tear down all the other buildings or
just build the biggest building in town.
And so there's a there's another saying
that I love is
>> Where did you hear that from?
>> Oh, I'm I'm going keep that one. No,
that was a good one, man. I like that
one. He's never dropped that one before.
>> The uh there's a there's a saying that
if you want to be like the 1%, you have
to do what the 99% don't do. What are
some of those things that you have done
over the course of your career that you
have done differently from the 99% that
put you in the 1%.
>> Look, I take chances, you know. Um
I'm I've just finished writing, which
will be my third and final book. I've
written two books now. One's called You
Can't Teach Hungary. One's called You
Can't Teach Vision. The last book I've
just finished writing and is at the
editors right now is called Life is
Luck,
The Paper Boy. And that's the name of my
book.
The bottom line about luck is this.
There's there's all sorts of ways to
find luck. The main way to find luck is
always be looking for opportunities.
If you're not looking for opportunities,
you're never going to be lucky.
You always got to be one. What What are
some of the ways to look for
opportunities? You know, never eat
alone. If you're out not out there, you
know, you know, these things I do these
thing I did with you. Why did I do it?
I'm like, there's a lot of people go,
why bother? And they go, why bother?
It's not worth it. Like when you all
first called to do it. I'm like, well,
what's it going to take out of me? You
know, a couple an hour out of my time, a
day out. So, I bothered. A lot of people
don't bother. A lot of people eat lunch
by themselves every day. Peanut butter
and jelly at the desk. It ain't gonna
make [ __ ] sitting at their desk. If you
don't get there and bob and weave and,
you know, jab, you're not going to it's
not going to work. So, you have to look
for luck. You have to look for
opportunity. And there's all sorts of
ways to enhance luck.
And but you have to understand that it's
you have to be humble enough to
understand that luck plays a big role in
all of this.
But you also need to understand you can
look for luck and find luck. The more
lottery balls I got, the more chances I
have to win the lottery.
>> I love the way that you articulated that
in the interview that we had did that
like more successful people like they
need to get on their knees and pray and
thank God that all this happened. But
when you had made it, you have this
incredible business. you've got the
family, like all these things are just
going in your favor. When did you kind
of attribute a lot of that success to
man, I'm a lucky guy because there's a
lot of people that aren't fortunate
enough to kind of be in my shoes. When
was that exact realization in your life
and in your career?
>> Well, I've known a long I've I've known
for a long time that I'm not that smart.
I'm a different kind of smart. I'm not
even sure I wasn't dyslexic. I don't
know. You know, one time I got
transferred from uh we left Cry of King
and went to a public school and they
they tested me. I was in the sixth grade
and they put me in fourth grade reading,
you know, like you know, humiliated. I'm
the dumb kid. And but that was a good
day, too. That was bad luck. But once
they put me in that fourth grade, I like
by God, I'm going to learn. I mean, I I
got reading. I got to read. I I've never
had not had a book since that. So, but
what you do is
you just have to keep moving. You have
to stay humble. And I understood my
limitations. Like, look, if Chuck Morgan
hadn't sat next to me in algebra
in 10th grade, and if I didn't have good
eyesight, I'd still be [ __ ] sitting
over there at Winter Park High. They're
like X's and I mean, what what are
they're not even numbers. I didn't know
what algebra was. I'm like, why are they
making me do this? When I take
standardized tests, I'm like, I always
[ __ ] them up. But here was the great
thing for me.
I understood early that I wasn't
smart, but I was smart enough to know I
wasn't smart and smart enough to find
people who were.
And humble enough to know I shouldn't be
pitching. I should be at shortstop. I
read a book called Titan one time that
your viewers should read. It's about
Rockefeller. Books this big. Titan. I
usually underline anything that I think
is dynamite. They ask Rockefeller in a
book.
How did you build Standard Oil? You're
not a geologist. You're not a scientist.
You're not a, you know, you're a
bookkeeper.
How does a bookkeeper build a company
dependent on scientist?
You know what I underlined? I hire
scientist. I'm like, and the thing you
your viewers should read is letters from
Rockefeller to his son. This is must
readading for you. Letters from JD
Rockefeller or whatever his initials are
to his son. It's a it's a treatise on
everything y'all are doing. Anybody's
watching this download letters from
Rockefeller to his son. My god. Because
it's just unvarnished father to son. But
I hire scientists. I understand. I'm not
that guy.
>> People people will take you places, you
know, uh people will take you places.
What's I I literally just take you
places that money.
>> People will take you places that money
can't. And when people look at hiring,
they often, you know, try to hire their
weakness or try to hire the things that
they don't know. What's kind of your
approach to hiring? What's the biggest
thing that you've learned from scaling
your business to a national level?
>> What I know is this and what I've seen
has happened in a lot of businesses. A's
hire B's
and then B's hire C's and then C's hire
D's and before you have it, you got a
[ __ ] organization.
I hire A's.
I want people to challenge me. I want
people better than me. And the reason a
lot of people don't
is because they want to be the man. They
want to be the woman. They want to be
the king. Well,
that's not the way you do it. You do it
again by competition. You do it by
bringing people in who are going to say,
"I want to be at your table. I want I
want to be a partner with you. I because
I deserve it." And look, when they come
to me and they deserve it, they get it.
One of the reason people stay with me
for a long long time is they got
partnership points. They make a shitload
of money and they deserve it.
They deserve it.
So, I hire
I own a lot of raceh horses. I own raceh
horses with the people who own American
Pharaoh and Justify. Every year, one of
my horses, Ultimate D, has a baby with
American Pharaoh. If you want a great
job, be Justified American Pharaoh.
Here's what they do all day.
They [ __ ] three times a day. And every
time, every time they [ __ ] they get
$250,000.
So once a year, American Pharaoh mates
with my horse, Ultimate D. But raceh
horses are raceh horses. And if you got
a racehor, that's I want to I want to
hire American Pharaoh justify
secretariat.
But as far as my lawyers go, when I go
to the races, because you need to have a
great horse, but you also need to have a
great jockey. When I go to the races, I
don't really know the horses. I never
really bet on the horses. I bet on the
jockeys.
There's some jockeys that can take a
long shot and still win. And there's
another jockey that can take a dead dog
winner and lose.
What I try to build horse is Morgan and
Morgan. And the jockeys are great
jockeyies. So I got great jockeyies
riding secretariat, riding justify,
riding Pharaoh, and godamn it's hard to
beat.
In uh your interview with James, James
asked you, "Have you ever been [ __ ]
over in business?" And your response
was, "Yes, but I [ __ ] back." Tell us
about one of those times.
Walt Disney World.
I mean, they've been paying for it ever
since. I mean, not only not only has
Disney been paying for it, but every
every time I walk in a lobby in one of
my buildings in America, I see Tim and I
remember that.
And uh a lot of times when I [ __ ] back,
they don't even know they're being
[ __ ] They just been ignored. They
just been out. They're done. They're
finished.
And you know, there's people that I have
working for me who don't even know what
I know about what they've done or tried
to do to me. And I see them in the
hallways. There's a song when I was a
kid, smiling faces show no traces.
You know, Michael Corleó didn't kill
Fredo till mama died. I got a lot of
Fredo still walking around in my life.
There's still people going to be taking
a canoe ride before it's over. And so
I do it every day with the insurance
companies. They give me a low ball offer
and most lawyers say, "Hey, we're going
to take it." I say, "No." And then what
they'll do is they'll say, "Okay."
Midway through they'll say, "Okay,
we'll pay the policy limits." When they
tell me that, too [ __ ] late.
Too [ __ ] late. There's $100,000. I
now want $5 million. Why? Because you're
in bad faith. That's the law. Pay me $5
million.
Many times they do. And when they don't,
I drag their asses all the way to the
courtroom.
We either settle the case the Friday
before the trial after the jury's been
picked while the jury's out. And
sometimes, like the couple weeks ago
when they wrote it all the way, jury
came back, $100 million. I got 60
million in coverage. That's a bad faith
case. I'm looking for a hundred million
dollars on a case. We'd have probably
settled for five.
That's [ __ ] back.
>> I love it. One of our favorite sayings
is that concentration builds wealth and
diversification keeps it. You, you know,
built your wealth from focusing,
concentrating
extremely in in the field of law. But
then you also diversified immensely into
other businesses. You own some of the
buildings downtown Tampa. You own
attractions that make what, like $30
million a year?
>> 33 in. better
>> which is which is ridiculous to even
think that those businesses are that
profitable and can make that much money.
But what is your kind of perspective or
what has it been in this part of your
life now on diversifying getting into
other businesses acquiring other
companies acquiring you know assets and
and where did you kind of develop your
philosophy for diversifying?
Well, I think one of the things for me
is because of my my childhood, I had
income insecurity.
And there's nothing worse than being
broke. That's why a few years ago, I
bankrolled. I ran a constitutional
amendment in Florida to Florida to raise
the minimum wage from $8 an hour to $15
an hour because it's fair, because it's
right. And and everybody told me I
wasn't it wasn't going to happen. I
spent, you know, millions and millions
of dollars. Everybody's fighting me on I
I passed it.
So, but as far as my diversification,
like I said, I don't hunt. I don't fish.
These people out there golfing. I mean,
God bless them, but what the [ __ ] are
you doing? And fishing. If I want fish,
I I'll go to Lombardis and get me some
fish and hunting. I've never shot a gun
and and I don't like to People eat deer.
I'm like, I can taste the fur. I can
smell the fur on the damn I don't so I
don't like any of it. So it was kind of
like I'm not g I don't have any hobbies.
So and I had these ideas. So that was
kind of a diversification that was you
know I called moonshots. I built a
house. Wonderworks is built upside down.
That's called a moonshot because
sometimes you do deals where it's burn
the boats. You land to take over the
city, but you burn your boats because
you're not leaving until you own the
city. So, there's burn the boat type
things like wonderworks. But on the
other side, what I've always done in my
head, my wife used to drive driver
crazy. We used to lay in bed and count
our money. Okay, we got and she'd be
over there at We going to do this again,
John. And how much we got? $4 million.
So, I kept having these these things
where I go because taxfree bonds. I love
taxfree bonds. And I felt like this
every time what what what do I need to
live a year? Okay, at one time I say if
I can make $400,000 a year, how much
would I need in taxfree bonds for that?
I need 10 million. So the goal was to
get 10 million in taxfree bonds. Then is
I need I need 1.2 million to live a
year. What do I need for that? I need 30
million. Four times 30. Reason I like
taxfree bonds in the great depression
only 1% less than 1% defaulted. people
will pay to flush the toilet and water
and electricity. And so I just on that
side and I call it the B side. This is
the A side which is where my cash is. On
the B side is my taxfree bonds, my
treasuries
and my cash. And I never touch the B
side because I'm scared because I got
those nightmares from being a poor kid
and losing my h losing our houses. You
coming we I'd pick up the phone there'd
be no dial tone. I wasn't like there's a
problem. I just knew daddy hadn't paid
the bill. I Okay, [ __ ] And so that's
how I've done that side, the the cash
side. And and then I'd had other
businesses that I thought, you know,
were kind of a diversion for me. And I
had
when I did it and I did it with OPM,
other people. When I did when I built
Wonderworks,
I didn't have it to build. Listen, when
I was 26 years old, I started a chain of
banks,
first national vosiola,
Pasco, First National Poke, uh, Center
State. We rolled them all up into a
company called Center State Bank. I was
26 years old when I started these banks.
We rolled all up in this big holding
company called Center State Bank. We
went on NASDAQ and I sold it to South
State Bank. I've never sold a share. And
people like, "You're starting a bank?" I
didn't even have money, but I started a
bank. other people's money. So when I
built Wonderworks opened in 97, it was I
didn't have the money to do it. So I
went out and raised money. And the way I
did it, I say, "Okay, I'm gonna give you
a 10% return. You're going to get all
your money back. Once you get all your
money back, I'm going to get 50%. You
get 50%."
Because you if you don't have money, how
you going to get money? OPM, other
people's money. And then as Wonder Works
kept doing better, then I'd make a
better deal for myself. Next time I'm
going to give you 8% and we're going to
split 7030. But I've had investors in
Wonderworks for a long time. It's their
single greatest investment ever. But I
started it with other people's money. If
you got no money, how are you going to
get it? You got to you got to But I had
ideas.
And uh so that's what you got to do. You
can't just say, "I don't have any money,
so I'm done." No, you got to find a way
to get the money. It's called OPM.
And you work and I put the most money in
the deal.
In every deal, negotiation or even case,
there's always an X factor. Something
where maybe they did the the case is
seemingly lost, but they when you're
working through it, you found this X
factor that allowed you to turn this
seemingly lost case into something that
you actually ended up winning. Could you
tell the story of maybe a case that a
client maybe came to you and it's
seemingly lost. They're out of options,
but you they you found the X factor
within the deal that allowed you to win
it. David Vega versus Key Capital
Leasing. My first big case when I sold
yellow pages and remember I'm the
greatest yellow page seller in the
history of AT. Don't ever forget that.
That's one of my proudest moments. I get
a call at my house from a lady named
Trish Gomez. Her husband Jim Gomez sold
yellow pages with me. She was a nurse at
the hospital. John, I'm here at the
hospital. There's a boy who has been
paralyzed in a car accident.
They're looking for a lawyer. I get up.
I shave. I'm in the shower. My wife
walks in. She goes, "What are you
doing?" I said, "I'm shaving. Going to
I'm going to go sign up this case. It's
4 in the morning." She goes, "You're
going now? Why don't you go, you know,
wake up?" I said, "No, I'm going now. It
might be gone when I get there."
I have a I have a saying of everybody
when when when opportunities there, fish
first and fish fast because the fish are
not always there. And just because you
think they're going to be there, they're
not going to be there. So I got out
there, I signed the case up. David Vega,
18 years old. He was a boy pushing the
car from behind. Three boys on UCF
Boulevard pushing the car from behind.
A car comes up behind him and hits him.
And and they had no lights on. It was in
the dark. his car hits him from behind
and
he was paralyzed. Now, the problem with
the case was the ca the car that hit him
was a a lease car, a year lease. And the
law back in those days was if you had a
year lease car, the the company who
owned the car didn't have vicarious
liability as only to the limits of the
insurance, which was 100 grand. But that
the insurance had lapsed. So there was
no insurance
and I'm saying because there was no
insurance that Key Capital Leasing that
was owned by Key Capital Bank owns the
whole thing. Owns the whole deal
and I have unlimited coverage. Well,
they fought me, fought me, fought me,
fought me, fought me. Then they started
fighting me, fighting me, fighting me
about liability because we had three
boys across the back of the car and they
couldn't see the headlights and
liability and all that. And it seemed to
be an impossible case
and I was young. I I did the day in the
life my own self. I didn't have money
for day in the life. I there filming him
getting ready for graduation.
And
the day the week, this Friday before
trial, John Mcdana across the street
over here calls me up. I go over
Lexington Insurance is there and they
offer me a gigantic amount of money. All
of it. And I remember the guy said to
me, he goes, "We don't know if you can
try a case or not." And by the way, I
didn't either know if I could try a case
or not at that point in time, but we're
going to pay you.
and I settled the case for David Vega
versus Key Capital Leasing and it's was
unbelievable lawyering on my part. I
never let go of it. Now, here comes the
best part of that story.
Years later, I get a call from David
Vega. He wants to come see me. I'm like,
"Oh, [ __ ] He's burnt through all this
money." So, David comes to see me. I
said, "What's happened?" I haven't seen
him forever. He's now a grown man. He's
like 50 years old. He goes, "I was
downtown partying and my car hit the bus
and caused $30,000 worth of damage."
And I go, "Do you have any do you have
money left?" He goes, "What?"
Got a lot of money. I go, "You got a lot
of money?" I said, "What are you doing?"
I go, "I'm an architect. Are you still
doing?" "No, I don't need to work." I
said, "How's your dad, David Senior?" I
bought him a place in Panama.
Okay. I said, "So, what kind of money?"
He goes, "Remember you put me with Mike
Davis?" He goes, "Mike Davis has run all
my money. I got a shitload of money,
John." I said, "You owe $36,000 for this
uh bus."
Yeah.
I said, "So, you got the money to pay.
You just don't want to." Yeah. Okay. I
said, "I know the mayor." So, I called
the mayor. I said, "Hey,
uh, there's a client I represented 20,
30 years ago hit a bus. He's got no
[ __ ] money." So, I got I got him out
of the owing the money for the bus, too.
But as as we were leaving
at the elevator,
I'm saying goodbye to David Vega 30
years later.
And I look at him, I said, "David,
what made you call me for this?"
And he looked at me like I was the man
of the moon. He said, "John,
because you're my lawyer."
And
he goes, "Do you know how many cases
I've sent you over the years?"
And the elevator closed. And I went back
to my office and cried
because he was Tim.
Well,
John, you brought up earlier the book uh
the letters from John D. Rockefeller
son. I have not, but you're going to of
I'm a big reader, so I'm going to read
that 100%.
>> If you were to write a book
>> and even if you just had one page in it
>> that was John Morgan's letters to his
son
>> sons
>> to his sons to his sons. John Morgan's
letters to his sons. What would that
page say? What would be the key points
on that page?
The key points would be
I always want my children to be
compassionate.
I'll be like,
be compassionate. Don't be arrogant.
Don't be an [ __ ]
Don't judge people.
When I used to give money to the
homeless, I would always tell my kids,
they don't want to be there. Once upon a
time, they were a little boy, little
girl swang and ate ice cream. They don't
want to be there. My lessons would be
more not about making money, would be
about who I want them to be as human
beings. The thing I was always most
worried about is that my if my children
didn't have compassion.
And one of the things I'm lucky about is
I'm Irish and I have a tremendous
amount, I think, of just natural
empathy. You know, I got bladder behind
my eyes. I cry at the drop of a hat. You
know, I can't I can barely talk about
Tim because I cry.
So, I would say, but you know, I would
just say be good. You know, treat people
right. The golden rule. I wouldn't it
would be nothing about making money.
It'd be everything about getting to
heaven.
And you know, luckily, uh, my kids
turned out to be, you know, big-time
superstars.
Big- time superstars.
And, uh, and my daughter, she has a
structure settlement company, and she's,
I call her my shrink because she's the
one that speaks truth to me. She tells
me what I need to hear. And so God gave
me four incredible children,
but
I would tell them,
"Be good."
>> People People don't remember what you
said. They just remember how you made
them feel.
>> Right. Right.
>> And you you've you've dealt with, you
know, thousands, hundreds of thousands
of cases just throughout your career.
What would you say is just the most
fascinating thing that you've learned
about people? because you're dealing
with people not, you know, when things
are right, but you're dealing with them
when they're in a time of of trouble and
they need help and they can't solve the
problem themselves. What have you
learned about how people act during that
time?
>> Well,
here's why what I do is righteous. I'm
representing people who have had things
taken from them due to no fault of their
own.
their life, their enjoyment of life,
their
consortium,
every that's been taken from them.
And so I I I always see what I'm doing
as righteous.
And
so I've always been proud of what I do.
And
when people, oh, you know, he's an
ambulance chaser. He's an ambulance
chaser. I'm like, hey, [ __ ] you.
First of all, with technology,
I get there way before the [ __ ]
ambulance. So anyway,
but you know, I'm there when the
ambulance gets there. That's a joke. But
but um
you just have to
treat every single person exactly
exactly the way you'd want to be
treated. I have a client satisfaction
department. When there's a complaint, it
goes to client satisfaction. Client
satisfaction takes the case, gets it
down to the lawyer. That lawyer has to
make that client satisfied within 24
hours. And if it's not, it comes to me.
You know, in all businesses, the
customer is always right. And so the way
I built my business is I'm representing
Tim Morgans of the world who've had
something taken from him. He he had his
legs and his I mean, when Tim would get
dressed
because he's he was paralyzed from the
nipples down. Just to watch him get
dressed was, you know, profile and
courage. And Tim was the most positive
guy in the whole world. If you went into
a party and you heard a lot of people
laughing, you knew where it was coming
from. Tim Morgan
and uh he was just amazing.
your video that you did with Jubilee. Uh
I think one of my favorite parts or
probably my favorite part was actually
when the gentleman had asked you for
some parenting advice and and I love
that you gave the advice about how if
your kids when they're growing up are
surrounded by any bad people, you got to
step in there and make it clear to them.
Get this person the hell out of your
life. Cuz all it takes is one bad person
to [ __ ] everything up. You hear people,
business people throw around all the
time, you know, you know, surround
yourself with five millionaires, you
become the six. But, but really,
I want you to just kind of emphasize and
talk about how important it is to
surround yourself with the right people
in any aspect of life.
>> There's a guy, there was a guy in this
state named Bill McBride who was the
chairman of Holland and Knight, big, big
firm. And Bill ran for governor and
lost. But I was friends with Bill and
his wife, Alex Sink, who later was the
CFO of Florida.
And you know, you go through life
picking up nuggets and those nuggets
stick. And one time, Bill said to me,
just remember this, John,
your child is one friend away from total
disaster.
I was like, bing,
like bing, I'll keep that one. And I
never forgot it. And so as my kids got
older and some of the kids would come
around, you know, and it only happened
twice. There was one kid that every time
he came over, he was stoned
and kind of belligerent kind of kid.
There was one kid, one girl that, you
know, one time was a spring break and
she just couldn't wait to get out to
the, you know, to party. So I thought,
you know, little little loosey goosey
here, a little loosey loosey. And I
banned them both.
Now, they I didn't tell them they were
banned. I just said to my kids because I
can't stop him from, you know, playing
with them at, you know, at school or
whatever. But one kid, uh, his mother
called me cuz Matt told him, you know,
oh, I shouldn't have said, but
I'm not allowed at your house and you're
not allowed at my wife, my dad. So, the
mother called me and she's like, what is
going on here? I said, "Listen, I sorry
you had to find out about that, but um
that's the way it's going to be." "Well,
your son is just as bad as my son." I
said, "Maybe he is." I said, "Maybe it's
the best thing we do is separate these
two little [ __ ] from each other."
And I didn't, you know, I don't care.
And later in life, the kid was arrested
for selling drugs. The girl that I
pulled got pregnant in high school. Both
times I was right. Now the good thing is
both those kids kind of turned out later
in life to be okay. I mean at one time I
walked into a bar and the girl was a
bartender and there she was and hey Mr.
Morgan, she didn't even know I'd banned
her. And uh so but at the time
and it's a hard thing to do but children
are you know and I told you on the
interview I told you in Jubilee I tested
my kids for marijuana all the time. One
time Dan was going back to college and
he was at my baby and I said, "He's
getting ready to go back." I said, "Dan,
uh, I think you've been getting high
over Christmas."
And all this is ironic to people because
I'm the guy who legalized medical
marijuana in Florida, but I've spent
twice I've did too. But but the I
believe this the mind the young mind is
very fragile. And we all have these
friends who called stoners. Hey man, I
mean these people who are just [ __ ] up
because they have fried their [ __ ]
brains,
you know, and look, I do gummies every
night, but my brain's made. But I was
always worried about frying the brain.
So Dan's going back to college. I said,
"Hey, Dan." Yeah. You know, stone. Dan.
Yeah. I said, "Uh, I think you've been
smoking marijuana over Christmas." No. I
said, "Okay, well, we're going to sort
it out." I said, "Why don't you go back
to the pool room, bathroom? I've got a
drug test back there. Just pee in the
cup. I'll I'll do the rest." And I said,
"But let me tell you how this going to
work. If you fail it after lying, you
lose your keys for the whole semester.
If you want to admit it now before we
take the drug test, you're going to lose
your keys for one month and then you're
gonna get your key back."
He's just looking at me, looking at me,
looking at me. He reaches in his pocket.
He throws me the key. I grab the key. I
said, "Okay, one month." And I said,
"And by the way, I will show up in
Gainesville and drug test your ass
randomly," which I did because you can't
[ __ ] around with your kids. And a lot of
parents don't want to know. A lot of
parents are ostriches. They don't want
to know. Information is power.
Drug tests tell the story. If you think
your kids
doing drugs, drug test them. If they
won't, they are. If they refuse to take
the test, they got real problems because
it's other [ __ ] than it's more than just
aderall and it's, you know, coke and and
everything else.
>> Why Why did you push for uh legalization
of marijuana in Florida?
>> Tim,
they had Tim on Percoet.
uh
every drug imaginable almost made him a
zombie. But when he would smoke
marijuana, he would had his pain went
away. The spasms dissipated.
He all day long he was all day long
down. He was getting high all day long,
but it cured his body, but he wasn't on
all those poisons.
And the reason people are fighting me on
it, you know who was really fighting me?
Who was putting the money in? The
pharmaceutical industry because they
didn't want to have people not take the
opioids.
They want people depend on they have a
pill called Marinol made out of
marijuana but doesn't work. And when I
did it, me and Tim Barnstormed the state
in a Willie Nelson bus.
I played poker with him one up in Maui
once and he was he was blow blowing up
big uh he had a guy named Mudslide
blowing up these big vape things and
passing around sitting next to Paul
Simon, you know, going around the the
the thing in Maui. But
I did it for Tim. Tim has when when Tim
got hurt, I almost felt like he took it
for the family.
And so almost everything in my life
after that kind of was. And look, the
day before Tim died, we were talking
because he's always in a good mood and
he never he was always laughing. And
right before I left, the last thing Tim
said to me was, "I laughed so you all
wouldn't cry."
[ __ ] If you want to see my eulogy, you
can go on YouTube and see my eulogy to
Tim.
and hear the whole and hear the whole
story
most.
>> I think uh I think one of the scariest
things uh out right now and just even
available is just how willing you know
pharmaceutical companies and people are
to take you know medicines to compensate
for their problems whether it's aderall
or you know anti-depressants all that
sort of stuff instead of just like
finding different ways to treat people.
It's kind of scary about how readily
available like these prescription drugs
are just made to people at all ages.
>> Well, how about this? They're on TV.
They're advertising
news. Of the eight largest advertisers,
every night, seven of them are
pharmaceuticals.
So, we're going in and saying, "Hey, can
I get this? Can I, you know, restless
leg? What the [ __ ] is it? I mean, you're
just jiggling your leg all night." I
mean, there's we're we live in what's
called the Prozac nation. There's a pill
for everything. I'm depressed. I'm down.
I'm I can't pay attention. Well, give
your kids got ADD. I said, I got
something for ADD, a BT. We're gonna
[ __ ] stop that. We're gonna stop that
[ __ ] ADD real quick. And uh and you
know, Adderall, Ridlinin, I mean,
there's some there's a pill for
everything because it's unbelievably
profitable.
And so marijuana to me is the best of
all. Marijuana,
I don't know if you guys use, but
marijuana is a plant put into nature by
God for us. And it works. And I don't
know why it works. I don't know why Tim
spasm stopped. I don't know why his pain
dissipated. I have no idea. Just like I
have no idea when you cut an aloe and
rub it on your shoulders that the sting
goes away. I don't know. And I don't
[ __ ] care,
but it works. And guess who really goes
to all these these these dispensaries?
Older people.
Older people. That's who's using it. So
I did it for Tim. And listen, a million
people in Florida are have a medical
marijuana car. Everywhere I go, people
come to me say, "Thank you. Thank you
for that." Or, "Thank you for minimum
wage." Or, "Thank you for all you do." I
mean, it's crazy. I go to grocery, they
walk up. I want to thank you for
everything you do. And I don't know if
it's marijuana. I don't know if it's if
it's the minimum wage. I don't know if
it's I call [ __ ] and speak truth to
power or I just don't know if it's my
business. But I get thanked all the
time. The other day I was filling some
gas up and this guy walks up. I get out
of the car. He goes, "Mr. Morgan, what?"
He says, "I'd like to fill your tank
up."
I said, "I've already put my card in.
Don't worry about it. He goes, I really
want to put it in. I said, well, you can
give me 100 bucks if you want. No, I
said I was joking about that. But he
wanted to fill my tank up to thank me
for what? I don't know.
That makes you feel good. You don't know
the minimum wage. I don't know if I You
know, you know, a lot of people come up
about their cases. You know, one time,
one time my daughter is coming back from
a a Woodser. She was a DG Florida. She's
coming back and she gets pulled over for
a suspected DUI
and the cop pulls her over and says and
she left the woodser because a boy she
liked came with a girl and so she got
upset and left. So the cop pulls her
over and she gets he gets her out of the
car.
He says, "Uh, what's your name?" And she
goes, Lake Mary says, "Are you you're
Kate Morgan? Are you are you related to
John Morgan?" And she goes, "It's my
dad." He goes, "He represented my
family.
This, we took the settlement money and
bought the house I grew up in."
He says, "Get in the back of my car. I'm
taking you home." So, she dodged a a
Dewey. But there's a lot of them out
there. And you know, I didn't like the
fact that she might have been driving
drunk, but I like the idea that that
police officer in Gainesville, Florida,
was grateful for what I did for him and
his family because something was taken
from them and I gave it back.
>> How important has faith in your
relationship with God been in the last
couple years in your life?
>> It gets more the older you get, it gets
more and more. I don't know. Listen, I'm
a guy. I ask people all the time on a
scale of 10, one to 10, 10 being dead
solid certain, one being not at all, is
there a God? And I'm not a 10 and I'm
not a nine and I'm not really an eight.
I'm probably a six or seven. But every
single night, I pray this prayer. I say
act of contrition, saying, "Our Father,
I got three people on my prayer list
that are sick." I pray for them. And
then I pray for faith.
I pray, you know, I really want to
believe
at a 10,
but I don't believe at a 10, but I pray
at a 10. But then I tell myself, I must
believe
more than I think I believe because I'm
talking to him all day long.
So, uh, so what I do is is my wife said,
she goes, "I choose to believe."
So, I choose to believe and I choose to
live my life exactly as if
he's there and exactly as if one day I'm
going to have to explain myself in
everything I did. So, I have some faith.
I'm not below a five. There's a lot of
reasons I tell people ask me, "Why do
you think there's God?" I said, "Here's
why I think that God is probably true."
Because these apostles denied him. Judas
sold him ass out early. Peter sold him
out after traveling with him all that
time the night before Gethsemane. And
even when he was rose again, Thomas like
is that really you? I mean, I mean,
okay, they doubted him and they live
with him. But once he died and once he
rose, all those men, every one of those
men fanned out on foot on foot. I mean,
Paul's walking to Ethiopia. [ __ ] I
don't even want to walk to Waw Wa. But
he walked to Ethiopia
and every single one of them died
a martyr. Peter got the guy who turned
him turned him against Gethsemane, he
was crucified upside down. They all died
a martyr except for John who died as an
old age. You know what I tell myself?
Those men must have saw something. All
of them don't die. All of them don't
take I mean one of them would have said
wait a minute okay
that guy was you know a mooney
they all died because they saw something
and what they saw
I believe is the truth the cross and the
resurrection
we like to end these episodes off with
two final questions for you John
if me and you died tomorrow and you had
one more guiding principle to leave with
the younger gener generation to take
with them for the rest of their lives,
what would that be?
>> Golden rule, do unto others as you would
have them do unto you. You can't go
wrong.
>> And if uh tomorrow was your last day,
how would you want to be remembered?
>> He kept his word. The reason people keep
doing deals with me is I don't need a
contract. All you need to do
is shake my hand.
>> I love it. John, this was an incredible
conversation and uh I just want to thank
you for for being here and just pouring
into our audience and to everybody tuned
in right now. So, I want to thank you
and for everybody watching. Guys, be
sure to like and subscribe for amazing
content because every week guys, we're
bringing you guys the biggest and most
incredible business owners to give you
guys advice to help change your lives,
your careers, your businesses,
everything. We're going to put the links
down to John's companies as well as his
uh Instagram. That way you guys can go
follow along with his incredible
journey. And we're also going to put the
link down in the description to join the
number one community and most powerful
entrepreneur network in the entire
world, guys. Cuz every week we give you
guys direct access where you can ask
your questions directly to the
multi-millionaires and billionaires that
we interview on this channel. It's on
the inside of the school of mentors. We
can't wait to see you on the inside of
this community, inside of this network.
But with that being said, we'll see you
in the next