There's a ton of responsibility with
raising over a couple million dollars,
but let alone $700 million.
>> Crazy becoming, you know, the youngest
self-made billionaire, becoming the
youngest public company CEO, but you got
to spend all your time and just be
totally relentless on focusing on the
only outcome of this is going to be a
win.
>> I know hindsight is 2020, but looking
back on the journey building your
company today, is there anything that
you would have done differently?
>> Man, a lot of stuff. You dropped out of
Carnegie Melon. I want to kind of get
your thoughts on going to college in
today's world as a new founder.
>> I don't think college is for everyone.
>> In today's world, if you had to start
over to get into the tech industry, what
city are you going to?
>> I remember being in Pittsburgh. We would
go make a job offer to someone that
lived in Detroit and they'd be like, I
have no interest in moving to
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Like I that's
not a city I want to be in.
>> That's so good.
>> You talk to someone about and they're
like, "Oh, this is great."
>> If you could go back and just give the
younger version of you one piece of
advice, so what would it be?
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we have an incredible
guest for you all today. But before we
get into things, I have a question for
you. Have you heard of Kylie Jenner?
Well, our guest today dethroned her in
2020 to become the youngest self-made
billionaire in the entire world after
dropping out of college, starting a
company, and taking it public in 2020.
Hilleion is the name of the company,
started as electric trucking, and has
now gotten into another billion-dollar
opportunity. So, we're going to be
diving into it today and what it takes
to become a self-made billionaire. But
Thomas, it's great to be here with you
today, my friend. Thanks for having me
and yeah, excited to share a little bit
about this journey. It's been a roller
coaster to say the least. Learned a ton
through this and hopefully I can share
some of that.
>> Absolutely. So, I want to start things
off. We'll get into the backstory, but
let's go right into 2020 right now. You
take the company public. What was that
feeling like and what ultimately led up
to that decision? Because we were
talking about this earlier is there is a
big risk with entrepreneurs taking on
lots of capital, ringing that bell on
the NASDAQ. What led to that decision
and what was that feeling like going
public?
>> Yeah. So let's start with painting the
stage a little co right middle of co the
public markets had shut down nobody was
raising capital nobody was going public
and so we were looking at like man is
this the right time is is this do we
just raise a private round and stay you
know in that market or should we go
public uh it was a time of the spack
right you probably remember that where a
lot of companies uh you know started
despacking we were one of the very first
to do that so we did our whole road show
virtually so kind crazy. Didn't meet any
of the investors in person. It was all
done through Zoom calls and uh and
talking to them over the phone. And we
raised 700 million just through that
transaction alone. And then being what
was I about 28 years old at that time uh
getting to go to the New York Stock
Exchange go you know you're going up to
that platform where the bell is and you
get to sign your name on the wall of the
New York Stock Exchange and then you go
out onto the platform and for the next
10 seconds you are opening the world's
markets. Was it scary raising that much
money? Because there's a a ton of
responsibility with raising over, you
know, a couple million dollars but let
alone $700 million. Was it scary taking
on that much capital?
>> Yeah, I think every stage of this
journey there's it's scary, right? I
mean, the second that you decide, I'm
going to take someone else's money and
start using that to try to go grow your
vision, you're taking on an inherent
risk. And you're now committed to, okay,
I got to go make this successful. Uh,
obviously, the magnitude of capital
we've raised is is substantial and that
that comes with a big commitment of
like, all right, we got to go make this
successful. Um but you know it was also
coupled with this you know we were we
were in a great space at a great time.
We were actually overs subscribed. We
could have raised more than 700 million
through that transaction. Uh but as I'm
sure we're going to talk about today
markets also changed. We went public as
an electric vehicle company. Uh now we
are completely out of that space because
it's been decimated over the last few
years.
>> So you mastered the art of pivoting. We
we did one of the uh a very bold bold
pivot. Yes. So we uh you know we raised
all that capital as we were going to go
electrify semi-truckss. That was the
vision, the goal and there were a
handful of other companies in that space
doing something similar and we saw that
they were going bankrupt. They couldn't
raise additional capital. It was an
extremely tough industry to be in. We
were also very fortunate that about a
year or two prior, we had acquired a
division of GE aerospace which had
invented a new way of making
electricity. Uh or as we'll talk about,
it's actually a 200-year-old tech that's
been modernized and brought forward. And
so we decided, all right, well, why
don't we actually go all in on power
generation? We saw tons of momentum
building in data centers, in commercial
buildings needing more power. You've got
rolling brownouts through California.
You've got Ireland saying if you're a
data center coming in, you cannot hook
into the grid. There's not enough power
available. So, you need to bring your
own power. So, we did that pivot into a
totally different industry, but one that
I think saved the company.
>> So, take me back. You started this
company when you were in college. Where
did you get the idea for Hilon? And how
did you get the courage to start a
startup in your dorm room?
So the idea came from there was a a
class uh taught by professor Claudia uh
where it was focused on what ideas can
you come up with that can have both a
positive business case but also can be
good for the environment. And so prior
to that I had this idea of like well why
are passenger cars electric but uh
semi-truckss are not. And so I decided
all right well why don't I use that as
my class project and talk about
electrifying commercial vehicles.
Prior to that, I had gone through a
couple other startups. One was focused
on sales, the other was focused on
concussion research. So, I already had
the the startup bug, the itch. And so,
uh, used it as, you know, this class
project. And as I was diving into it, it
was like, man, this actually really
seems like a good business model. And
then from there went to business plan
competition. So this was one of the the
unique ways of kind of founding a
company which I would strongly encourage
to your your listeners is we didn't
start out the gate by going and raising
a seed round of funding. What we did is
we actually went to competitions like
the rice business plan competition, mass
challenge, the department of energy and
we raised a bunch of non-dilutive
non-equitydriven capital and that's what
we used to found the company and then
from there we went and raised a seed
round. So that actually significantly
reduced the amount of dilution we took
on the front end. I
>> I have to ask you and and the reason why
is because you came from a family of
entrepreneurs. Both mom and dad were
entrepreneurs.
>> Now you were going to Carnegie Melon,
one of the most prestigious schools in
the country for MBA, correct? Or was
this grad school or was
>> actually engineering? Yeah. So I did
undergrad engineering and grad school
engineering.
>> But you dropped out of Carnegie Melon
>> in the grad school. Yes.
>> What was the conversation like with your
parents? And I asked because this is a
fellow college dropout right here. When
he dropped out though, you know, I would
say both of our families are a bit more
traditional. Military families went to
school, kind of did it that way. He got
blacklisted from the family, mom, dad,
everybody.
>> Horrible. Wouldn't the relationship went
to zero?
>> So, were your parents in support of you
ultimately dropping out of school or was
there a little bit of like backlash?
Nah, finish. Get it just to have it or
kind of what was that conversation like
in your household?
>> So, there was definitely a push to
finish, right? But then when we talked
about it, it was like, "All right, we're
getting traction." Like I didn't I
didn't just drop out just with that idea
on the back of a napkin, right? I'd
already gone to some of the business
plan competitions was raising capital
and then and it kind of became one of
these things of like, okay, well, if
you're really going to commit to
Hilleion, you got to go all in, right?
You can't be doing classes on on or
going to classes and then doing this
startup on the side if you're going to
start raising capital and really trying
to go all in. I firmly believe in start
companies while you're in college or try
it because it it's like you have this
perfect safety net around you, right? If
if you start a company and it fails,
okay, you're still going to graduate
with your degree and you're going to go
work somewhere, right? Uh it's a perfect
time to start a company. I I I look at
this in two ways because, you know, I
feel it was honestly a blessing being
that we were going to the University of
Texas that, you know, you you do have
that safety net that you can kind of go
a couple years without making any money,
starting to kind of get that traction so
that way you have it set up to where
you're making money by the time you get
out. You don't have to go and get a job.
But I feel like, and want to know your
thoughts on this, do you think a lot of
people use that safety net as, oh, I
just have to have until the time I'm out
to kind of have it figured out? Do you
think that especially for like new
founders stay should they put the
pressure on themselves to not have
school as a safety net or do you kind of
like the idea of going to school to meet
the people? I want to kind of get your
thoughts on going to college in today's
world as a new founder without having a
ton of money raised and a lot of revenue
already showing right now.
>> Yep. So, a couple of different thoughts.
One is I don't think college is for
everyone. I, you know, I struggle with
the concept of you go to college and you
get a ton of debt and then you graduate
and you're maybe going into a job that
you could have gotten if you hadn't gone
to college, right? I mean, not every job
needs someone to go to college. So, uh,
now granted for me, college was an
amazing experience. I learned a ton. Uh,
made everlasting relationships, uh,
people who mentored me. I'm even now on
the board of trustees of Carnegie Melon.
So like from that perspective, I'm a big
believer in go to college, but I do
think there's an element of not everyone
needs to. Now, if you are in college and
you think you want to start a company,
that's you're never going to have like a
better time to go do it because of that
safety net we were talking about. So I
think if you if you want to try starting
something and you do have the fortune of
being able to go to college, try that.
But that's not to say like, oh, I want
to start a company, so I need to go to
college to do that, right? If you if you
can start something coming out of high
school, like a lot of this is just about
just start trying it, start learning
about it.
>> Yeah.
>> One of one of the things that I love is
that before you took on outside capital
is you tested the product by going to
competitions and actually validating the
product. How important do you feel like
that is for new entrepreneurs actually
validate their product before actually
going on to bring on outside capital?
>> I think it's huge. So, to walk you
through the rice business plan
competition, it's a 3-day event and you
and your team, you go there and you
pitch your idea to an audience of 20, 30
people who are all like investors or
they've started their own company.
They're judges for this competition. So,
over those three days, you're ultimately
pitching to hundreds and hundreds of
people. And after each session, they're
grilling you with questions and they're
giving you feedback about your business
model. So after each one of these, we'd
be like, "Oh man, we hadn't thought of
this." Like we hadn't thought about how
was service going to be done or we
hadn't thought about um you know the
amount of capital that we would need to
raise over this period of time. So
getting those questions and how
investors are looking at your business
plan allows you to kind of navigate okay
well what is the best way to start this?
>> And with that so you validated the the
the business model, you validated the
product. At what point did you realize I
was like, look, you know, I have an
initial I I have initial capital, but I
actually need to bring on additional
capital for the company to grow.
>> Yeah. So, it it became one of these
things of we kind of in the beginning we
lived by each business plan competition.
So, we would go to it, we would win some
capital. Like the first one, I think we
won about 70 grand. The next one we won
100 grand. The next one was tens of
thousands. So, after each one, we would
say, okay, well, what can we go do with
this capital? and is it going to be
enough to go win the next competition,
right? Uh ultimately when we got through
that phase of things, then it became
well, we've proven enough to go raise
our seed round of fund of funding, which
we had a large seed round or in that in
2015 2016 time frame. It was a large
round. Rounds become much much bigger as
as time goes on. But we raised about
$3.5 million. And we did it on a
convertible note, which that's another
thing uh for
us, you know, entrepreneurs to be aware
of is you don't necessarily have to sign
up for equity dilution right out of the
gate. You can set up these structures
like a safe or convertible note where
you're saying, "Hey, I'm going to raise
some capital, but it's not going to
convert into equity until down the road.
So, if I'm successful with this capital,
you're going to get a little bit less uh
equity versus if I'm unsuccessful,
you're going to own a larger chunk of
the company. So, you're kind of given
that give and take with the investor.
>> Everyone knows that startups are a
roller coaster. You're working 12-hour
plus days. You're having to put fires
out left and right. For most people that
want to start a startup, what were some
of those early challenges that you had
to face in in the beginning of this
whole company? Yeah. So, it first comes
down to you need people around you to
help you with it, right? It for my
journey, it couldn't be a one-man band,
right? It's a you need engineers, you
need just, you know, people doing sales,
you need marketing, like it you need a a
team around you. Uh, and in the
beginning, I mean, it was really
recruiting friends and people out of out
of college to, hey, come do a summer
internship with us or come try this out.
And and in the beginning, I mean, you
are putting in crazy crazy hours. Not
that not now, but it's it was like, you
know, you're you're pulling allnighters
to then go to that business plan
competition the next day. And uh and I
mean, we had we had stories, I'll share
one with you of like, you know, we
started this out of my dorm room at
Carnegie Melon. And then since we were
building a hardware product, we needed a
space to actually produce the thing in.
And so we rented this like few hundred,
only a couple hundred square feet out of
this big factory that where they used to
build locomotives. The place was a mess,
right? There was no heat, no AC, the
ground was dirt. Uh, and we're in there
working at like 2:00 a.m. And we didn't
know this at the time. We knew it
afterwards. Uh, there was a homeless guy
living in the rafters above us, uh, in
the attic area. And it was 2 a.m. And
the guy just like started screaming and
going crazy. And I mean, we're all
downstairs like, "What the heck is going
on?" Right? Um but you know I share that
story just from like uh you know we
didn't we didn't start with like oh well
we got 5 million in the bank let's go
you know get a beautiful office and
great place to work. No it was very much
like let's take the the money we got
let's be scrappy with it and see what we
can go accomplish. Now, what I need to
know is, right, raising $700 million,
it's you look back and there were so
many conversations that had to be had to
to be able to get to this point, right?
You're in an extremely capital intensive
business with how expensive this stuff
is that you're ultimately having to
produce and make. But in those earlier
days, right, we we a great friend of
ours, his name is Carl Grant. He's one
of the top VC life science guys in
Austin. And I was asking him about, you
know, hey, your best advice is somebody
trying to find investors. And and he
said, and maybe you agree, maybe you
don't, but investors don't invest in
ideas. They invest in people and they
invest in businesses, right? Those
proven entrepreneurs that have already
built that first successful company.
Maybe they've exited it. They're
building that second one. They've got
the credibility or the businesses that
are already making money, right? The
banks only give money to people that
don't need the money anymore, right?
Kind of similar to investors, right? In
your earlier days, how did you kind of
sell yourself to these investors and
convince them to kind of buy into the
heart and mind and the vision that you
ultimately casted? What was it that
enabled you to kind of get some of those
massive first checks and start to raise
millions of dollars early on as the
college dropout? This is that first big
business that you're building. What how
did you win those investors over?
>> Yeah. So, two ways. One was we found
people at these business plan
competitions, which was a huge win,
right? people that were in the audience
that would come up to us afterwards
saying, "I love what you're doing.
You're this seems like a smart business
model. You're having success at this
company."
>> Are these people are they like venture
capitalists? Are they in actively
investing in a lot of tech companies or
>> are they in your your industry at all?
>> Yeah, all the above. And um so we had,
you know, a family office that invested
in us coming out of that. We had one of
the big uh private equity firms in
Boston invest in us after that. their
one of their side funds did uh as well
as we made a relationship with a uh
strategic investor so a company in the
industry who didn't invest out of the
gate but they kept tracking us and then
they eventually said yeah I want to
invest in that company in a future round
so making those type of relationships
are is is extremely valuable the other
way though which is I think the best way
uh it's a tough thing you need to work
on making connections but uh having
mentors that can connect you with VC
funds. So I was very fortunate had a
mentor who uh used to be a partner at
Austin Ventures here in Austin and he
was able to connect me with investors
that he had done deals with in the past
and then they ultimately invested in the
company. So uh to to that point if you
can if you can get a warm referral
that's who VCs are going to look at,
right? Like if you just go to a VC's
website and uh and you send them an
email saying, "Hey, I got the next great
idea." Chances are they're not going to
really take it serious. But if if their
friend who they've done deals with
before and they've had success with
before emails them and says, "Hey, I
think you should look at this company."
That's
>> it's it's all relationship based
essentially. Yeah. James, you mentioned
what Carl Grant was saying about they
invest in people. Uh a cool story that I
love is that like the the former CTO of
Open AI, her name is like Mera Marotti,
she raised like a billion dollars
straight off of just she she didn't she
had no company. She's just like I'm
getting ready to like build something in
the AI space. because she was the CTO of
OpenAI. She raised an insane amount of
capital just based off that. And going
back to the people thing, uh you had
mentioned early on you were like, let's
hire summer interns and friends and
things like that. How do you view hiring
like especially in a startup
environment? Like what is what are you
looking for? If I'm a startup founder
and I'm looking I need to assemble a
team to help me take this thing to the
next level. I I know you said like don't
necessarily look at corporate because
they're not going to thrive in the the
the start. Who who are you hiring? How
do you go about hiring? I just want to
hear your philosophy on that.
>> So, you need to look at who do you need
in the seat for the next 12 to 18
months. So, this is something that took
me a long time to learn is uh you you
know depending on what stage the company
is. You might say, "Hey, I want let's
say a head of marketing." Well, the head
of marketing you need at a 10erson
company versus a 100 person company
versus a thousand person company is
totally different, right? And you need
to make sure you're finding the person
that's right for the stage you're in
now. If you find the person that's right
for three years from now, chances are
they're going to struggle with that
small environment having to, you know,
they're probably the ones having to post
on social media, which is something that
they've maybe not ever done in their
career because they've been at a higher
level. So, uh, that's something where
you need to be comfortable with the fact
that your team is going to evolve. And,
uh, it doesn't mean that they maybe
aren't going to be part of the company
long term. It just means that they might
need to take a smaller role as the
company becomes bigger and bigger. And
so that's something where you know you
got to look at well what do I need right
now and is the person kind of have the
grit and ability to roll up their
sleeves to do the work that's needed at
that stage of the company and be
comfortable with the fact that maybe
that person won't be in that same seat
in 18 months. Something something that I
love is what you just said is that the
people that take me from you know one
from zero to 100,000 from 100,000 to a
million may not be the same people all
along that journey. And there's another
thing that I love is that people may
know my name. They may know my the
company's name but they don't know your
story and they don't know a lot of
people probably don't know that this
wasn't your first venture that you
started either. You started a couple
ventures before this. What were some of
those lessons that you learned from the
previous ventures that allowed you to
build the company that you have today?
>> The first venture was in sales, uh,
which was awesome. Like if there's one
skill that an entrepreneur needs, it's
sales, right? And so, uh, I was selling
everything from it was promotional
products. So, it was like branded mugs
and lanyards and t-shirts and those sort
of things and and grew it to doing, you
know, close to half a million a year and
I was doing that out of my dorm room as
well, right? So uh so that taught me
sales which has been valuable all
throughout my career. The next one was a
wild journey. We were doing concussion
research and we were testing athletic
helmets seeing how they performed.
Started publishing our data and one of
the helmet manufacturers actually uh
came after me and said if you keep
publishing your data we're gonna sue you
for defamation.
>> That is crazy. So that happened right at
the same time when I got accepted into
the business plant for Hilleion at at
Rice. And I was like, "Okay, either I go
down this concussion path and I'm
probably going to spend the next 5 years
in a courtroom trying to defend research
and data or I can go down this path of
building electric se." So that was what
caused the the move over to uh to Hille.
But you know, each journey you're you're
learning and you take those those skills
and whatever you learn and you bring it
into the next one. And and so I think
it's go back to like Mr. Beast's quote
if he's like, "Oh, if I had to start
another YouTube channel, like I could
get a million followers instantly." Kind
of a deal, right? It's because you're
able to take what you learn through that
journey and then apply it to the next
thing you're doing.
>> In today's world, if you had to start
over to get into the tech industry, what
city are you going to? Because we're in
Austin right now. I was but I was just
in a coffee shop with someone recently
that I guess had built a successful tech
company and he said he's moving back to
San Francisco cuz he said that that's
kind of where it's heading back to like
like that that's like where the heart is
and it always will be. What are your
kind of thoughts on tech today and like
what city you think that a young tech
founder should be in today's world?
>> I still love Austin. I do think so
Austin has you can recruit people who
have been in startups before and then
the other thing is you can get people to
move to Austin. So, I remember being in
Pittsburgh. We would go make a job offer
to someone that lived in Detroit and
they'd be like, I have no interest in
moving to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Like, I that's not a city I want to be
in.
>> That's actually so good.
This is
>> You talk to someone about Austin and
they're like, "Oh, this is great." Now,
just don't bring them on a day like
today where it's 100 something degrees
outside, but
>> take them paddle boarding, you know?
>> Exactly. Right. And uh and so you know
the the ability to attract talent talent
to move to Austin is great. I think
California still struggles with like
there's a lot of people who would not
want to move to California
>> in terms of like money raising though in
terms of like money raising though. Do
you think San Fran is probably where the
heart is still or is that in Austin as
well?
>> I think nothing compares to Sand Hill
Road out in California. That is, you
know, the place where venture
capitalists are at and and will invest
money. Uh, with that there's been a ton
of growth on the VC side in Austin and
the money's here to raise.
>> Is that money coming in from California
or just all all over?
>> All over. I think you have New York
coming here as well, Boston coming here
as well. I'll give you another story of
uh we were raising our series A round of
financing in Pittsburgh once again and
an investor flew in. We had the meeting
and he was like, you know, I like the
company, but I don't want to have to
come to Pittsburgh every quarter for
board meetings. like I don't have any
other companies here, right? They want
to invest in an ecosystem where they
come in, they see five of the companies
they've invested in and they fly back
home. And so you need to be in a a city
where that's happening, where that's
there's that like thriving ecosystem of
startups.
>> That's so interesting. It's like they're
they're not just concerned about coming
to meet your company. Like they want
they're they're that effective that it's
like I have five, six, seven ventures
that are out here. That's crazy.
>> Wow.
>> You you acquired a brand from GE. What's
it like to do? What's it like to
negotiate with a billion dollar company?
>> So, G is a uh is quite a company, right?
And they are they are tough negotiators.
Uh there was boardroom discussion on our
end of like, okay, let's try to go
acquire this, but like if we're sitting
here in a year, we wouldn't be surprised
if like this hasn't happened and it's
just taken a long time. Uh ultimately it
did take a long it was a long journey
north of a year to make the acquisition
happen but we did it and I mean now
that's become the foundation of our
whole company and uh you know it's we
were we structured it where it was cash
and stock so G is actually one of our
shareholders now in Hon and uh and then
when we made the acquisition all the IP
all the technology and the team came
over plus one of the really unique
things is some of technology is
piggybacked on things that GE has spent
billions of dollars inventing. So for
example, the fuel injection technology
in our Carno is the same fuel injection
or very similar technology to what's in
a jet engine. And GE has spent billions
of dollars inventing that. And so we
were able to kind of take this division
that ultimately tangentally had like
billions invested into it and stand up a
new way of making electricity. When you
started Highleon, you were creating
electric. It was an electric trucking
company. Yeah. You're competing against
Tesla. You're competing against all
these, you know, big companies,
>> but you ultimately pivoted.
>> Y
>> how did you identify that opportunity in
more of the energy tech industry and and
what kind of was your framework for
identifying those opportunities? Cuz I
think that's probably one of the most
underrated skills underrated skills
people can possess in today's world is
the ability to identify opportunities
and pivot at the right times. what what
was your framework for saying and and
before we even say that did you piss
some people off who had invested in the
company? uh we definitely got
shareholder outreach that was like I
invested in an electric vehicle company
that's not what you guys are anymore
right and and so yes and and also the
other thing to consider is being a
public company having uh funds that are
investing you they have mandates on what
they can invest in right so their their
corporate mandate might be you need to
be investing in the EV space and then we
go pivot and it's like well that's not a
space I can invest in anymore my you
know my mandate from from my fund
doesn't allow for that So to frame up
kind of how this all progressed. So
started building electric semi-truckss.
Then we we started working with GE on
this generator technology that we viewed
it as it was the way to charge the
batteries on the semi-truck. And then we
made that acquisition plan was we were
going to commercialize both products,
bring it to market. And then going back
to your question, we just we started
seeing the the warning signs that the EV
industry was falling apart. We saw close
competitors trying to raise funds. They
weren't able to raise it. We saw
competitors starting to do layoffs. We
saw competitors going bankrupt. And and
it just started becoming this like,
okay, well, why are we going to be
different than these other companies?
And it got to the point that if we kept
going with the EV industry, we were
betting on the fact that the market was
going to turn around. And that's never a
comfortable position to be in, right?
you you don't want it your future to be
destined or you know your destiny to be
based on well hopefully the the public
markets are going to change and start
you know liking this journey and so at
that point you know we we met with CEO
we we had like a lot of discussion we
had we met with other CEOs of public
companies and asked them like should we
do a industry consolidation would that
make sense and and even at that stage
everyone was pretty bullish on no we
like the journey we're on and we're
betting on the public markets turning
around uh I remember clear as day I was
out in Las Vegas sitting down with CEO
and chairman of another EV stock and you
know I was talking about how hey I I
think we're we're going to maybe move
into other industries do we want to
merge our electric vehicle business
together and and they the the example
the answer they gave was hey we're
confident that this industry is going to
turn around and going to start
supporting electric vehicles again we're
going to keep going down our path months
weeks later whatever it was Hilion did
the pivot out and we said, "Hey, we're
going to do the hard but necessary
decision of shut down that entire
division. It unfortunately came with big
layoffs through the it was like it was
an extremely extremely tough time." And
uh and you know, you're you're the only
we were the only one in the industry
that was saying like let's get out of
it. Everyone else was just keep keep
pushing forward. Fast forward a couple
years later to today, I think all the
other companies have actually gone
bankrupt by now. I I'm not I can't think
of any that are still around. So,
hindsight, yeah, we made the right
decision, but in the time when you're
talking to everyone else and everyone
else is still bullish and saying, "No,
just keep going." Uh, you're you're
staying up at night questioning whether
you're doing the right thing or not.
>> So, you made the pivot to focus. You're
pretty much producing electricity is
what you're doing. You're powering data
centers. Can you break down your
business, exactly what it is that you're
doing to the people that may not
understand it?
>> Yeah. So we have a technology that it
basically enables you to make your own
electricity on site. So think about the
building we're sitting in today.
Somewhere out back it's got an air
conditioning system or on the roof it's
got an air conditioning system providing
the AC for the building. Our view is the
future is going to be these same
buildings are going to have a generator
outside that's producing the electricity
to run the lights to to run the HVAC
system and you're going to make it on
site. Now th this concept is called
distributed power generation. We didn't
invent it. It's been around forever. Uh
there's ton of research on like grid
resiliency and everything is a lot
better. The national security be if you
you know have distributed generation
better all that. But the problem has
been there's never been a technology
that could make electricity on site for
as cheap as clean as efficient as big
power plants were able to. That's been
our unlock is we can provide you the
benefits of a big power plant but do it
right out back at your facility.
>> And one of your customers is the US
military. How did that come about?
>> Yeah. So, uh we are in an active program
with the Navy where we are actually
going to be powering their autonomous
unmanned vessels. And so, uh they just
unveiled video of what the ship looks
like. It's like this couple hundred foot
long vessel that uh it's going to be
full of carno generators in it. And
we're the power plant. How did that
conversation come about? Did they reach
out to you? Did you have somebody that
knew the people to hit up in the
military? What was that like?
>> So, it actually started back in the GE
days. And GE is obviously a big
contractor for the military. And the
military, what they were looking for is
they said, "Hey, as we move to unmanned
vessels, there's no longer anyone on
board to do oil changes to the
conventional engines and do the normal
maintenance." And so we need a system
that has ultra low maintenance so that
we can deploy a ship and maybe we don't
have to see it for the next 6 months, a
year, whatever it is, however long
they're going to leave leave it out
there. So if it's a conventional gen set
like they've used in the past, they need
people on board to just maintain the
system. And so when they looked at what
we were doing, it was like, okay, well
this is something that doesn't need much
maintenance or doesn't require much
maintenance. we can deploy it and uh and
you know kind of set it out and forget
about it and and let it run. And so
that's what got you know the interest
going. And then we've got a bunch of
other benefits like the thing is truly
fuel agnostic. They actually make us
test the generator on diesel fuel that's
been 20% contaminated by salt water. So
think of that like you got, you know, if
you put salt water in your car engine,
the thing's not going to work, right?
You're going to be buying a new car. Uh
the military makes you go through those
types of tests though because you know
they're they're putting vessels out
there that are going to get holes in the
side of the hall and there's going to be
contamination.
>> So it's 2025.
What other industries do you see as a
winner? If I'm a young founder wanting
that's ambitious wanting to build
something, what other industries are you
like go all in on this?
>> Yeah, this whole AI revolution I think
it's going to shake up most industries
that are out there. So if you can figure
out how to to be in the AI space or how
to leverage AI, right, uh I think that's
the right space to be in. Now our
approach has been we're making the power
for AI for data centers. Uh but that's
just one way to approach it. I mean if
you can figure out how to use AI to um
to revolutionize an industry, a business
like that, that's where I would highly
suggest people look at and figure out
what can be your niche uh whether
supporting the AI industry or using AI
to disrupt a different industry.
I'm I'm curious. You've you've made, you
know, you had the previous ventures
before this. You started Helion and now
you're in the regenerative regenerative
power space. If you could go back and
just give the younger version of you one
piece of advice when you're going
public, you're going public and you're
ringing that bell. If you could go back
and give that version of yourself one
piece of advice, what would it be?
>> Yeah, it would be realizing how fast
markets can change, right? cuz we go
public, the market valuation's about 10
billion. You're riding on Cloud9. Like,
you know, everything's going in your
your direction. You know, if you had
asked me then, could the stock have have
fallen from north of $50 a share to sub
a dollar a share, I would have said, no,
that would be crazy, right? That would,
you know, that happened to the that
entire market, that entire EV industry.
Uh it it went away, right? or it, you
know, in the electric in the semi-truck
world, it pretty much went away. So that
would have been something I I I wouldn't
have appreciated or underappreciated, I
guess, where the markets will change. So
just because you have an idea that
people are willing to back right now,
that might not be an idea they're
willing to back in 2 years. And you
know, same thing if you go back in time,
like being in the power generation space
probably wouldn't have been the best
timing or or best fit. Fast forward to
today, AI industry. Well, now being in
power generation is a great fit.
>> How how do how do you get through that
mentally by the way? Because I feel like
everybody they see, you know, oh, the
the market's down and you look like, oh,
like the top CEOs on the Forbes list,
they just lost hundred billion dollars
today. How how do you deal with that?
Just seeing that price go down? Like I
I'm I'm genuinely curious how you
mentally get through that because I feel
like a lot of people would be biting
their fingernails and and just not able
to handle that sort of pressure. I had
days where my personal net worth was
swinging hundreds of millions of
dollars, right? So, you wake up in the
morning and you go to bed and you're
worth $200 million less or $200 million
more, right? Like,
>> it was it was wild to wrap my head
around. Now, one thing was
it's it's not fully liquid or it's not
fully real, right? I mean, if if you're
the founder of a company and your net
worth is tied into the stock of that
company, you can't just go liquidate all
that overnight, right? That that's not
feasible. So, yeah, you're seeing these
major fluctuations in what your shares
are worth, but the amount of cash you
have sitting in your balance sheet on,
you know, in your bank account isn't
changing, right? So that it's kind of
this it warps with your perception
because it's like well over here with my
stock is swinging all over the place but
my my
>> like cash I'm good on on paper it's all
over the place.
>> Yeah. Um yeah but uh so I mean it it
crazy becoming you know the youngest
self-made billionaire becoming the
youngest public company CEO but if you
break it all down the mission the end
vision was still the same. we, you know,
wanted to grow highly on one of our core
values is we're going to go change the
world. None of that changed just because
our stock was jumping all over the
place.
>> I I think what's really interesting is
like when I was getting started in the
entrepreneurial journey, as I said, I
dropped out of college and I had so much
pressure on me from from friends,
family, just all these external voices
and just people saying like this is a
mistake, you can't do this, like it's
not going to succeed. And like you like
you're a young founder and you're public
you you have a public company and now
you have all these people voices and
different pressures like all on you at
once and they're seeing your successes.
They're seeing the the losses. They're
seeing just like you grow as a person.
How do you how are you kind of growing
through that and kind of just like
dealing with the pressure and silence of
the noise? Like is it you have a mentor
in your corner that is kind of backing
you? Is it just raw innate self-belief?
like what was it that was keeping you
going through those those times?
>> So, one is staying levelheaded, right?
Like so yeah, enjoy the highs, but
realize that they're probably going to
go away and then when you're in the
lows, realize that those will probably
go away as well, right? So, you got to
stay even keeled. I was very fortunate
to have a great mentor and adviser that
helped me through the journey. Uh, I've
got a great board of directors who like
I I've got a great relationship with
them where I can call them up, run ideas
off of them, and like get their
feedback. So, ultimately, like I view it
as I'm early in my career. I'm 33 years
old. I sure as hell do not know
everything. I got tons more to go go
learn. Yes, it's been an amazing journey
to get to where we are, but I hope, you
know, the next however many years of my
life are even more amazing of a journey.
I view it as I I'm at this point where
like I need to be a sponge. I need to
learn from others and you know interact
with people and just like figure out
okay well it's it's what you're doing
honestly. It's like how can I learn from
the people that are out there who've
been through this before because maybe
their story doesn't directly correlate
to to what I'm doing but I can probably
take something from them and uh and and
apply it to what I'm dealing with in my
daily life. So be level-headed even keel
don't don't overexaggerate the highs.
Don't get too depressed on the lows. Uh
and and learn from all those around you.
>> Now, your first investor gave you a
piece of advice that I that I want to
serve as a guiding principle for the
three of us and for everybody watching
this right now. Could you share with us
what your first investor told you?
>> Yeah. So, I'll tell you who the guy is,
Lily. So, he's uh he's a billionaire
himself. He's the family owner of Publix
grocery store. Just an amazing guy. He
ran Publix. He he grew that
organization. Uh, so if anyone any of
your viewers are in Florida, they're
probably like raving Publix fans, right?
>> Every every trip to to to Miami, there's
Publix right there.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh and so he was one of he and his
dad were the driving force behind that.
>> And he said when he invested in
Highland, he said
>> winning is the only option. So so many
founders get wrapped up in man am I
going to fail or if I do this could we
potentially fail or that like in their
mindset is thinking about failures and
he said no you got to spend all your
time and just be totally relentless on
focusing on the only outcome of this is
going to be a win and so don't waste
your time worrying about failures just
focus on how you're going to make this
thing successful.
>> It has to work or it has to work.
>> Yeah. I mean that's that's the only
option and like that's what gives you
the confidence of like no let's pivot
out of this. Let's go try something
different or uh let's like you know
let's do bold decisions uh to to try to
make this thing successful.
>> And and so you you learned early on that
with a lot of outside noise being that
you're the youngest public CEOs that the
average age of a public CEO the average
age of of a billionaire is probably in
their 50s 60s. So so you're being
underestimated you're being doubted
because of your age. So you learned that
you had to master your mindset above
anything else.
>> Yeah. And I I view it as like
the the individual puts that age stigma
on themselves most of the time. Like I
view it as like yeah, okay, I'm the
youngest person in this room, but like I
don't really care. I mean more of this
is going to should be judged off of what
can I bring, what am I going to
contribute, and what am I going to be
able to achieve. Doesn't matter how old
you are, right?
>> There's something I love about that.
When I first got started in digital
marketing, my first ever business, I had
the the belief of I look, I'm 19 years
old. I'm approaching these business
owners that are, you know, in their 40s,
50s, 60s, and why should they trust me?
I don't have a lot of experience. And my
mentor at the time said, Josh, you have
to realize that people do have a lot of
experience, but a lot of these people
have a lot of experience doing things
the wrong way.
>> Y
>> and it doesn't matter how old you are.
It just matters in terms of what value
you can provide. and the problems that
you're able to solve.
>> But I think it also goes along with and
I think a great person for him to know
is Mark Mlan who's here in Austin. He uh
sold his first company to Oracle. He's
now the CEO of a publicly traded
software company and uh they um just had
I think like a 12 billion 14 billion
valuation or something like that and
he's in his
>> he's riding a high right now.
>> Yeah, there you go. But but but he's in
his 60s and he introduced us this
concept of reverse mentorship.
>> Mhm.
>> Where he understands that, hey, there's
a lot that he knows that maybe some of
the younger guys don't necessarily know,
but he he knows and he's accepted the
fact that a lot of the the younger guys
know a lot about stuff that he doesn't
know. And I think that the power is
being able to kind of embrace that. And
so, like you said, you may go in a
boardroom where, you know, these guys
are a lot older, but you bring a lot to
the table that maybe they don't realize
or maybe they do. when it's like then
everybody can kind of win together.
>> Yep. Yeah. And a lot of people
underappreciate like the people who have
been through this before, they want to
give back to the next generation, right?
And so they want to be your mentor. I
remember like asking the guy who, you
know, mentored me through much of the
high journey like having that initial
discussion of like I was going in like,
man, I'm going to ask this guy to be my
mentor. I wonder if he's going to want
to invest the time. And he was actually
thrilled that I was asking him to be,
you know, my mentor, right? So, uh, if
you if you have people that you think,
you know, you can learn from them,
chances are they're probably willing to
impart their wisdom on you about what
they've experienced,
>> right? When we were talking earlier, we
were talking a bit about negotiation and
I asked you, you know, are you a good
negotiator? And you said, well, to be
able to raise over $700 million, you got
to know a thing or two about
negotiation.
Talk to me about your and and Josh was
asking you about what was it like
negotiating with a billion dollar
company. We got into the conversation
about leverage and you talked about can
you tell me the story about how there
was a deal that was supposed to go
through and the other side I wanted to
get a little and what you had to and end
up doing. What did you learn about
negotiation in that time?
>> Yeah. So if you're out raising capital,
you got to be on your toes, right? Like
things are going to change instantly and
you got to be able to respond. So, we
were in this situation where we thought
the following day we were going to be
closing an investment at certain terms
and uh it turns out spoke to that
investor 24 hours before closing and
they said, "You know what? We're
actually going to change the terms,
change the valuation on this round and
uh so we're still good to close
tomorrow, right?" And so they like
sprung it on me and I was like, "Man,
this this isn't good." Like this is not
it.
>> So they wanted to change the terms last
minute.
>> Yes. Yep. And so for them, like they
viewed it as they had leverage cuz we
were in a position where our balance
sheet was getting low. We needed capital
to in order to be able to survive,
right? So they viewed it as, okay, we
got we got the ability to we're going to
get a bigger stake in this company.
As the story I was sharing with you is
uh we were fortunate that we had another
investor who wanted to to put more money
into the deal. And so I remember getting
on a flight, flying to Florida, landing
at like midnight. I'm driving to the
hotel. I'm thinking about like, "All
right, I'm going to meet this investor
for breakfast in the morning." And I'm
going to say to him like, "My ask is,
will you guys take over the lead round
in the lead position in this round and
do it on the old terms? And if you do,
then you can put as much capital into
this round as you want." Right? And uh
and so sure enough, had that meeting,
the guy was like, "Yep, I'm in. Let's do
this." And uh and then you know then
later that day I called the the who was
going to be the lead investor and I said
hey we've actually gone another path.
We're we got a different lead and we're
we're going you know with them. And so
the moral of the story though is you got
to have leverage and you got to have
options, right? I mean if we didn't have
a backup option, another investor that
was willing to kind of step in, what are
you going to do? You're just going to
say, "Okay, I'll take the new terms, the
new valuation."
>> I love that. and and if they don't
somebody else will the power of having
the options like you said.
>> Yeah. So I mean that's been one of the
big learnings is uh you know and as
you're doing acquisitions as well you
got to understand what's happening at
that other company right we were in a
very unique position when we were
acquiring that division out of GE
aerospace where GE was going through a
devestature they were breaking their
companies up into three and one of their
internal pushes was you know get rid of
R&D activities reduce spend towards kind
of like future investments let's let's
make the core business as positive as
possible when they went through this
devestature. So that meant that the
division that we acquired, right, there
was kind of an appetite on GE end to
sell it versus if at that time GE was
like, no, we see this as the future of
our company, then they weren't going to
sell it for the price they sold it to us
for, right? So you just got to
understand like, well, what's what are
the pain points and the leverage on the
other side as well?
>> I know hindsight it's 2020, but looking
back on the journey building your
company today, is there anything that
you would have done differently?
>> Man, a lot of stuff that
Um,
you know,
the end answer is no, right? And and the
reason being is because we've had an
amazing journey and I think we've still
got an amazing journey ahead of us and a
lot to go do. And you know, you talked
about earlier, 80% of companies fail,
right? 80% of startups fail in a couple
years. A couple years.
>> And so, we're still here. We're still
listed on the New York Stock Exchange
American. We're still out there. we're
we've got uh a lot of money still on our
balance sheet to go make this dream and
vision happen and we think we've got an
awesome technology to go do it. So yes,
can you look back in the rearview mirror
and nitpick certain things? Absolutely.
But ultimately, would the company be
alive or be where it is today if you
didn't make some of those really bold
and strong decisions? Probably not. I
want to ask about because I I think
what's fascinating about the pivot is
you acquired a company from GE for a
massive amount of money. You know,
there's a big talk in today's world
about buying businesses.
>> So, you love the idea of of acquisitions
and and adding adding that vertical
enabled you to kind of move on from that
other division. So, I just wanted to
kind of get your your thoughts on buying
businesses in today's world.
>> Yeah. And so, I know exactly what you're
talking about. What I what I've seen a
lot is people talk about buying
businesses that are like in that hey I'm
doing a couple of million of revenue and
then you come in you acquire it and you
talk and you look at how can I optimize
it to go grow it to 10 million in
revenue right ours was a little bit
different where we were acquiring a tech
that was like hey we got to then go
actually commercialize this and bring it
to market so for us that was a perfect
fit we had the R&D capital needed to go
bring it to market and and that's what
we're doing right now But I think a lot
of people who are maybe looking at
acquiring a company like wouldn't have
the many tens or hundreds of millions
needed to go invest in that development
of the tech, right? And so they're more
looking at can I go acquire something
that I can optimize it to get it to a
point where you can probably sell it and
get a pretty good return.
>> I think what's crazy about that
acquisition is when you think of GE,
it's one of the biggest companies in the
world. They're the ones buying
companies, but you would have bought a
company from them.
>> Yeah. It was a little reverse, right?
Yeah.
>> Um Yeah. And and it was it came down to
timing, right? It was if we were a
couple years earlier, a couple years
later, it wouldn't have made sense. It
was, hey, this this opportunity made
sense for GE and it made sense for
Hilleion and we were able to make the
deal happen. Um but that's where you got
to seize the opportunity when it's there
because it might go away in in a day or
in 6 months or a year. And uh and so
timing is everything. If I was getting
ready to start a startup and I
approached you almost like you
approached your mentors, the guy from
Publix, and I said, "Hey, could you
mentor me? What would be two or three
things that you would tell me on day
one? Know this?"
Well, so my first thing would actually
be learn about what you need, right? And
that and and most mentors are great at
that. Like what I found is uh you know
they're not most people are not the type
that just come in and oh let me force
this down your throat and this is what
you need to know. Like every situation
is different. So I got to if if you got
a great mentor it's going to be let me
understand what your needs are and what
you're struggling with and I can help uh
you know morph it in that way. One
overarching
piece of feedback though is and this
goes back to like the your question of
like acquiring companies is
the startup journey. Not all companies
are created equal. Some companies take a
ton of cash to get to just being, you
know, able to have revenue. Some
companies take very little capital in in
order to start growing revenue. Some
companies, if you're doing like
software, could, you know, get user
viewership that like skyrockets. Other
companies, like if you're doing lawn
care, you're going to like one house at
a time, you're going to grow your
business, right? So, you need to, and we
talked about this a little as well, like
I think a lot of entrepreneurs have this
list on their phone of like the hundred
ideas of what they would go start or
things they could go start. Take your
top 10 ideas and look at like, okay, how
much capital would it take to start
this? How long would it take to get to
revenue? How long would it take to get
to cash flow positive? And, you know,
how big is the company going to need to
be? Right? each. So, each business has a
different profile and then figure out
which one works best for you, right?
Some people are in for the I want to go
raise hundreds of millions and and try
to go grow a billion dollar company.
Other people would look at and say, man,
if I get like a million a year revenue
company, I am I'm loving life, right?
And so, you got to figure out what's
best for you.
>> Yeah. If it if I if it was I want a
billion dollar company.
>> Yep. Is there anything in particular
that you would say and I and and like
you need capital what would it be?
>> So you got to have a vision of something
that warrants that size of company,
right? So if if you wanted to go uh be,
you know, the billiondoll business of
like I'm going to reinvent the pot on
that little flower there. Investors are
going to look at you like, yeah, no, I
don't I don't think there's a billion
dollar market there. If you
>> It's not exciting at all.
>> Yeah. And it's like that, you know,
there's there's no way you're going to
maybe, but there's no way you're going
to go make a billion dollar business out
of selling little, you know, pots for
for fake flowers.
>> So, you got to have that vision about,
well, where am I going, right? And and I
share with you my vision of Hilleion.
It's I see that buildings like this,
Walmarts, Home Depot, data centers are
all going to have carnos outside of them
making power. So, if you tell an
investor that it's like, well, yeah,
what uses electricity? Well, everything
uses electricity. I can see this could
be a a billion plus business, right?
>> It's a large total total addressable
market,
>> right? Yep. And so you need to the size
of opportunity of what your vision kind
of creates will allow you or not allow
you to go raise that amount of capital.
>> With your with your past experiences in
the automotive industry, where do you
see that industry going? Do you see it
being fully electric? like do you is
there any companies that you're kind of
on the lookout for? What's kind of like
just your take for the next 5 to 10
years on the automotive industry?
>> I think things keep shifting towards
electric, it's just at a much slower and
slower pace than what people
anticipated. Like I envision however far
out it is, you know, whether it's a
decade or five decades, I don't know
what it is, but the the ideal household
is going to be one electric car and one
hybrid car in the garage. So the
electric is a great commuter vehicle and
then the hybrid is when you need to
drive from Austin to Dallas, you can
drive using gasoline, you don't have to
worry about recharging the vehicle. Uh
that's where I think the the future is
heading. It's just the problem has been
it's taken so much longer for adoption
to take place than what people thought.
But at the end of the day, it still is
happening.
>> Why do you think that adoption is taking
longer than we expected?
>> Yeah, I think it's it's um
Yeah. Well, one people are resistant to
change, right? That's that's uh the
first thing. And you know, I've I've
talked to people about like that example
of driving to Dallas and oh man, I'm
going to have to stop and and recharge.
And it's like, yeah, okay. A lot of
people just don't want to deal with that
headache.
>> That that's my biggest thing. We have
like electric charger ports in our
apartment complex and I'm like, okay,
well, that'd be good for the dayto-day,
but it's like if I'm driving to Dallas,
I don't want to have to stop for 30
minutes and charge my car, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I'll be honest, like,
you know, I was someone that was a huge
proponent of the electric vehicle
industry. when I would drive to Dallas,
I would drive a gas powered car, not my
Tesla that I drive on a daily basis,
just cuz I didn't want to deal with that
either, right?
>> Uh so I think that's been one of the
hurdles. Um
>> but then I think for the new entrance in
this space, the challenge has been it's
so capital intensive like I mean how
many billions I think it's north of 10
billion has Rivian raised to try to to
bring another electric vehicle company
to the market, right? Maybe maybe that's
the next billion dollar company right
there is a person who can f solve you
know the battery charging problem right
there you know instead of 30 minutes
it's it's it's five minutes or three
minutes you know
>> yeah and there are people working on
that right that's happening
>> well Thomas we like to end these off
with two questions you got yeah I'll
start by asking man
>> we've covered a lot
>> a ton man this was extremely valuable
and for everybody that made it to this
point I know that they got a ton of
value out of this so this was incredible
but your last message to the younger
generation if you could leave with them
one more kind of guiding principle to
take with them for the rest of their
lives. this is the first time you know
meeting hearing from Thomas Healey
today. Um your last message to the
younger generation
>> there something it's a quote at Carnegie
Melon that came from Andrew Carnegie. He
said my heart is in the work and that to
me that means whatever you're doing go
all in on this. Make it your life. Like
my life revolves around high in my
company right and uh and I love doing
it. I wake up every morning and love
doing it. You have to be that committed
if you're going to go try to start
something and go all in on it and go
back to what we said earlier. Failure is
not an option, right? The only option is
you're going to win.
>> Love it.
>> At the end of the day, if tomorrow was
it, how would you want to be remembered?
>> Yeah. My my goal is
a multi-deade
longlasting company and we totally
disrupt how electricity is made.
>> I love it. Beautiful answer and
beautiful podcast, my friend. So, want
to say to everybody right now, be sure
to like and subscribe for amazing
content because every week we're
bringing you guys the biggest and most
successful business owners in the entire
world to give you guys the advice on
what it takes to build a billion dollar
company just like Thomas right here.
We're going to put the links down in the
description to Thomas's Instagram so
that way you guys can go follow him and
follow along with his journey as well as
as well as we're also going to put the
link down to become a member of the
number one community for entrepreneurs
in the entire world. We've built a
community of over 6,000 members, the
most powerful entrepreneur network in
the world, where you guys get direct
access to the multi-millionaires and
billionaires we interview every single
week on live Zoom calls that we host,
where you ask your questions to the
millionaires and billionaires we
interview, and they give you the
playbook, they give you the blueprint,
they give you all the answers on what it
takes to make it in today's world. So,
we can't wait to see you on the inside
of the School of Mentors. But with that
being said, we'll see you in the next
episode.
