Addy, how many views are you doing a
month right now?
>> 1.3 [music] billion and that's a little
conservative. What?
I got That's unreal.
>> You can literally engineer virality. We
never make a video without knowing
exactly what we want this comment
section to look like.
>> So, what you're saying is for everyone
watching, it's not luck, there's a
formula.
>> 1,000%.
>> There always like to say, "Oh, I'm
shadow banned." It's not the content,
never the content.
>> People have been sold a lie that is
keeping them small.
>> There's someone out there, they want to
be a creator, but they just don't
necessarily know how to get started.
What's the playbook? So, we tell them to
start with a
method and if you
you will never have an issue getting
views.
>> Sometimes the smallest things in your
video can be the difference between 1
million views and 10 million views.
>> And so, if you can plant those things
intentionally, that's what we teach
people how to do. Why would you not put
them in every video?
>> Addy, if me and you died tomorrow and
you had one more guiding principle to
leave with the younger generation, what
would that be?
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James and I'm here with
Jack and Josh and we are at, for the
first time ever, in Nashville, Tennessee
with an incredible guest for you guys
today. One of the most viewed content
creators on planet Earth, Addy Kinsman.
Addy, how many views are you doing a
month right now?
About 1.3
billion.
And that's a little conservative. What?
>> [laughter]
>> I got That's unreal.
>> She said 1.3 billion views a month.
>> With a B. With a B, which is
>> Organically.
>> Which is incredible.
>> part.
>> But, the fascinating part though is you
know, you're a creator but most content
creators are broke. You're making a lot
of money while you're doing it as well.
Which which is fascinating. Guys, Addy's
making millions of dollars. She's built
an incredible brand and we're going to
be diving into all of it today.
Where I want to start things out is I
want to go back to when you're 23 years
old. And you know, for those that don't
know, Addy you started out in the music
industry. I did.
>> You're coming off The Voice, you signed
a a bad record deal and you went
bankrupt. What was your mindset like
when you're like, man, I I I I got to
I'm I'm I'm going to I'm going to flip
the switch. I'm not going to let this be
my end all be all.
I think it was having real confidence in
my own abilities to entertain people.
You know when you know deep down that
you have a gift and that you're good at
something or something comes naturally
to you. I think one of the biggest
things we all have to protect is that
belief in ourselves because the world,
everybody around us, our friends, our
jealousy, whatever it is, and even
situations and circumstances that are
going to happen, like signing a bad
record deal, are going to give you all
these reasons to make you more fearful
and try to give you all these reasons
why you can't. And I think for a long
time, we have to have an a fortitude to
be our own biggest cheerleaders and to
pull ourselves up and bootstrap it every
single morning and get up and just say,
"I do believe in myself. I do believe in
myself." Even on days you don't feel
like it. I think if you get delusional
enough and kind of tell yourself, "We're
going to make it. We're going to do this
thing." Then
you have to have a little bit of uh
delusion, I think, to be an entrepreneur
cuz for a long time and many many days,
you guys know this, it can feel really
bleak sometimes and it's like you just
get kicked in the face over and over
again. But then, eventually, I think you
just have to be your own biggest
cheerleader and then eventually other
people will catch on.
>> Where did that self-belief come from?
Was that from your parents that kind of
instilled in you growing up or was it
more or less, I've seen how hard I work
on my craft and that's where the
confidence comes from.
I do think both. I think I was getting
the validation, like we all are as kids,
we're like, "Oh, you're so good at
this." Whether it's soccer or school
plays or whatever, you get validation
and know that you're kind of good at
something and then if you really enjoy
it, too, you're going to be able to
withstand that. But, I do think so
probably partly validation of being told
that you're decent at something enough
to where you you believe it, too, and
you think you could make a difference in
that way. Um
I think that's probably the biggest one,
to be honest, and then recognizing that
mindset is so malleable. And I'm in
like I can be influenced easier than I
would like and so I'm very particular
about my inputs and controlling my
inputs and what I listen to, the people
that I'm around and making sure those
are edifying conversations, otherwise
you can start to believe the lies pretty
quickly. You uh you started in the music
space. What was that experience like?
Like what got you into music in the
first place and what was that process of
you wanting to go on the show The Voice?
I know we know what things happened fast
forwarding later, but kind of walk us
through that. What was you know, what
inspired you to just first get into
music in the first place and what was
that experience? Not many people get the
experience to go on a show like that.
That's so true. You know, I say I
started playing guitar when I was 10,
but I didn't get any better. I haven't
gotten any better since I was 11.
>> [laughter]
>> I wasn't a great musician, but I loved
music. I loved how it allowed me to
understand people and circumstances
outside of my current experiences. And
so, I was just always fascinated with
writing lyrics and then entertaining
people with that, but I wasn't really
a singer and I didn't really try that. I
was just interested in music and always
loved music. But, when I went to
college, there was karaoke in
Stillwater, Oklahoma. There wasn't much
else to do in Stillwater, Oklahoma.
>> [laughter]
>> Oklahoma State. So, I would do karaoke
on Wednesdays, but that was really like
the extent of it. Um until my sorority
sisters dared me to audition for this
like karaoke show which was The Voice.
And this was season 1 or 2 and a bridge
there. Um and so, ended up drove through
the night chugging energy drinks to do
this dare cuz I was the kind of friend
who like wouldn't say no to much. And I
was like, "That sounds like a great
time. I'll do it. I've always wanted to
go to Nashville. I love music. So, sure,
I'll go audition for this show and take
you up on the dare."
In a nutshell, end up on the show and my
life had just changed. I wanted to go
work for a nonprofit that called To
Write Love on Her Arms and they help
people struggling with depression,
addiction, self-injury, and suicide cuz
my dad was struggling with all of those
things. And I was trying to learn
empathy instead of anger for what he was
going through. And so, I wanted [snorts]
to go speak and encourage and inspire
people working for this nonprofit and
little did I know God would show me that
a a voice that I didn't know I have and
put a microphone in my hand on a much
bigger stage. And and you had a lot of
success on the show. And eventually to
the point where, you know, you got a you
got a contract.
>> Mhm. Signed a record deal and I think
this is this is really important for all
the creatives out there. Let's talk to
the creatives, the athletes, the
entrepreneurs. One of the most important
decisions that they make is ultimately
whether they want to sign with an
agency, sign a contract, a record deal,
whatever it may be. You kind of were
gotten to a situation where it was it
was not working out in your favor. What
are some things that you can advise to
those young creators out there when
they're in those stages because big
companies, they can take advantage of
people because especially if you don't
have that business prowess, you know,
behind you like maybe you didn't have it
at the time. What are some things, some
red flags that looking back on that that
were kind of there that you could
instill in people when they're in those
stages, they're coming up, they're
getting approached by big talent
agencies, you know, whatever it may be.
I would say so I signed this, let's put
record deal in air quotes because it was
really just an investor, okay? And he
had a record label. Anybody could just
have a record label, right? And he just
had money to fund it and when he knew I
was going to be on the show, somewhere
in the interim, we signed this deal and
then the show gave me some leverage,
right? But
>> How did they approach you? He was a
friend of my mom's from college.
And so, it was a family thing, seemed
like it would be great, good Christian
guy.
Um
and it I had signed to I didn't have
anything else going for me at the time
that I signed this deal, right? I wanted
to go work in this cubicle helping
people with depression and now I look at
this deal and I'm like, it seems pretty
bad. I signed away commercial rights to
my name for life. Um it's at imperpet I
mean, it's a it's a bad deal. I own
nothing and I don't have a a real shot
to ever own anything. And the deal would
have been thrown out in court. It's
pretty unconscionable to do to a human.
But um I didn't have any other leverage
at the time that I understood. I didn't
know anything about the industry. It was
an opportunity to move to Nashville and
I thought, "How bad could it be?"
Turns out, real bad. And once you do get
a little leverage and I couldn't then I
couldn't go to meetings without this
person and this person was not a nice
People didn't like to be around him.
We'll say that. And so, I realized, "Oh
my gosh, my entire future is predicated
on my relationship with this family and
I really am trapped here unless I do
something." Um so, my advice would be
if to honestly, whether it's management,
whether it's an agency, partnerships are
very very very difficult and very few
genuinely work out. Even when you're
best friends with somebody, it's kind of
why they say don't live with your best
friend. You know, like these other sides
come out and so, I would say now
I regret nothing cuz it it made me
scrappy real fast and it taught me what
business actually is. After I was
bankrupt, I realized if you want to
solve your own problems
all businesses is solving other people's
problems and if you solve other people's
problems, you solve your own by default.
So, I would hold out as long as
possible. If you are doing good and you
see a path, I would hold out on
partnership, on signing management, on
signing agency for as long as you can
and then I would still not do an all-in
deal. I would have fair outs and I would
bet on yourself for as long as you can.
I I I think there's so much value to be
said in that because I mean the like the
three of us we've been approached by
countless agencies, some of the biggest
ones in the in the world Yeah.
>> to kind of, you know, come in there and
it's like I it's like you said, it's
it it it it's it's a tough decision to
kind of want to give up that ownership
and and give decision rights to other
people and everything flows through
somebody else when if things are going
well, things are going well. Yeah, and
I'm sure that feel that feels awesome.
Like right, the attention, the
validation of these big agencies being
like, "We want you. We want to add value
to what you guys are doing in the
world." And thinking of what that
amplification could could lead to. But,
the end of the day,
you're when you're just starting out
still, like you've got so much runway
still ahead of you. It's like you kind
of want to see what you're made of
first, without having to take that
outside decision-making control.
>> The worst decision you can make is an
emotional one. You know, especially when
you're getting that first attention, or
maybe you're you're starting that
gratification of all the hard work
that's finally coming in. There's also a
saying that I love, is that everything
I'm not makes me everything that I am.
And we talk about like our journey
and just like all the hardships we've
gone through and we talk about like,
man, what advice would I have given, you
know, younger James, younger Jack,
younger Josh on what we would have done
differently on the building of Hardnox.
But when we really look at it, probably
would have changed nothing.
Because all of those hardships and all
of those lessons, good or bad, you learn
along the way, Mhm. makes you the
company and the people that you are
today. Even the mistakes, all the
mistakes we make along the way, those
are very valuable lessons. Like you
can't pay for those lessons. You have to
go through it, right? And so we can all
probably look in hindsight, and we
wouldn't change much, because those were
either the beatings we needed to take to
learn something the hard way, which is
the best teacher, and it is it is just
very necessary to figure it out through
failure.
They they can't teach that in college. I
remember that when we did our first
interview with you,
you know, James had asked you what were
your thoughts on college and you kept
pointing, you were like, "Sorry, Mom.
Like [laughter] like but I don't think
that college is like necessary in
today's world
and it's just it's it's so true as for
the fact of it's just like, hey, like
you could go to like business school and
they could tell you like, oh, this is
how you run a company or be a manager
and stuff like that, but you really
don't know it like the like the
guy or girl that dropped out of school
and is like trying to do it day in day
out, they're probably learning way more
than somebody just sitting in a
classroom at like university somewhere.
>> I I totally agree. I think I went to
college, right? It was nice for the
bridge between
living with your parents and being fully
fully in the real world. There's still
like somewhat of an incubator where you
get your feet wet and not like
ruin your life or end up under a bridge.
So it was better in the social aspect, I
felt, but how expensive is that to just
like have a training ground for social
behavior, you know? Like being a pseudo
adult.
>> Where where did you go to school?
Oklahoma State.
>> Oklahoma State, so you were Stillwater.
>> Stillwater, Oklahoma. So if I let me ask
you this then, right? Because, you know,
probably going to Stillwater is not a
great example, but I always tell people
I think what's way more important than
the college you go to. You can go to the
best school in the world, but if it I
think it's the location of where you go
to school. I think it's that city. Go to
a place like Nashville where it's
moving. Go to a place like Austin where
it's like moving. You know, we we went
to the University of Texas and it's like
getting out to like a city like that
where there's proximity with people that
are doing things, they're moving. It's
like that's that's more valuable, in my
opinion, than going to get a degree
somewhere.
>> Yeah, cuz nobody knows what you want to
do at 18. You don't know what you want
to do at 23. You have an idea of it, but
very few people are going to be doing
the same thing at 18, 19 that they are
at 25. Very few, you know? And most
people I have friends in just most
painful debt that they cannot get out
of. We we've helped several people get
pay off their student loans. I'm like,
you you would have no way out of this
unless you make triple your salary,
which is not up to you if you're working
for somebody else, you know? So
encouraging people to be entrepreneurs,
let me ask you guys this. Do you think
it can be taught or do you think people
are naturally born entrepreneurs?
Of all the interviews you've done.
I think there's some people that have
that initial that innate drive and they
just have those those characteristics
were probably instilled in them early on
in experiences that they went through.
But there's definitely some people at
some point that I feel that they can
they can
they can experience like a mindset shift
where they they go and it's not a lot of
people, but it's very few people to
where it's just like they're like, man,
like I I need to make a change in my
life. And then they go all in and as
long as they can take action, they be
consistent with it and they learn from
the mistakes and they make the necessary
pivots, they can become successful.
>> Mhm. And and I'll I'll add on to that. I
think once you are exposed to that
little bit of, you know, entrepreneurial
freedom and and I talk about this a lot.
I think most entrepreneurs take that for
granted. I mean, think about it, Addie,
like we we have the ability to really
travel whenever we want, we can work
from wherever we want. Do you know how
much of a blessing and a gift that is?
And I feel like not a lot of
entrepreneurs like really talk about
that. And we have the conversation and I
hate to say it this way, but like if if
we had to go back and like work a job
and kind of like, you know, go up in a
in a in a cubicle and be locked in
there, I don't know how long I could
last without without some There's no
going [laughter] back for anybody on
this couch. No one's going back.
It's not an option once you taste the
fruits, but it takes I mean, for me it
took a very it took a long time. I've
been eight different people before I'm
the person that I am sitting in this
chair today. Eight different versions of
myself. Completely different versions,
but entrepreneurialism, I can see now,
it's funny how you can only connect the
dots in hindsight, but now it was always
the umbrella of creating my own
opportunity. And that I think you can
kind of teach. I think a lot of people
do have the ability to spot opportunity
more naturally than others, but once you
start to see opportunity in everything
and be a student of that, like treat it
like a craft. What's the opportunity
today? What's the opportunity in
everything that I'm doing? Then you get
better. So it's like any other muscle.
So I want to talk about seizing that
opportunity, because, you know, I think
I think for everybody that has done
something substantial in the creator
economy, at least, you know,
if you go back to like a couple years
ago, in your case you've been in the
game for for for a while now, you know,
what was your you said how long? I think
10. 10 years.
>> 10 years.
>> What was your moment of realization
where it's like there is a real massive
opportunity in the creator economy?
Right? Because we talk about, you know,
when when we were building Hardnox, it's
like, hey, there's a big latch of a big
lack of, you know, financial education.
It's not taught well in school and, you
know, at at the same time it's like the
creator economy, you know, I think in
2020 it was like a $250 billion
industry. So we're like, let's put the
two of those together. What was your
realization when you just saw the real
power and opportunity in the in the
creator economy? Was that initial kind
of exposure to that and were you like, I
was going to go all in? When I went
viral. I put some chickens in a bathtub
and grew 100,000 followers overnight.
And so I was still a musician at that
time. So attention to my album,
attention to everything that was Addie
at the time, even as a country musician.
>> What platform was that on? Facebook.
>> Facebook.
>> Facebook. Still our bread and butter.
Creators sleep on Facebook.
>> that story though. What So what happened
here? 100,000 followers overnight.
>> Like you weren't just trying to go viral
for viral's sake. You were trying to do
it to to market your music. Kind of. I
This was during bankruptcy
and I a meme network here in town. So I
used to have an office of you could
throw a rock and hit it right here on
Music Row. Um and so it's fun to be back
down here. We're sitting on Music Row
currently.
Um but I guy who runs Be Viral, Jonathan
Burden, still a very very dear friend.
He goes, "I think you're funny and I
understand your frustration with not
wanting to wait for a suit behind a desk
to give you permission to be
successful." And that was my frustration
with the music industry, is you sit
around and you wait for a publisher or
label. This was pre-TikTok for somebody
to notice you and say, "You're good
enough now. I'll give you a shot and
I'll determine if you can be
successful." Um but that doesn't sit
well when you know that you're good at
it and you know you're meant to do it.
So I started making videos. And I
started doing it for this meme network
and at when I first started making
videos, I was learning how to do this
cuz I'd never made videos, never done
comedy, never never done anything like
that. So I started looking at Vine and I
started just copying, trying to get my
muscle memory and do what everybody else
was doing and try to figure out how to
do it. Well, everything was tanking
because it came across so inauthentic
because it was, because I was just
copying. And so nothing's doing well and
I had to have a new video turned around
by 6:00 a.m. every morning. And so it's
1:00 in the morning, I'm exhausted. I
put my little SD card in from the GoPro
that I was filming on. He gave me a
GoPro to film on. So put the SD card in
and all the footage is corrupt. All of
it and I have to turn something in in 5
hours and I just spent all day making
this bit. And so I'm crying and my
boyfriend at the time, we were very
country, and he goes, "Addie, why don't
you just go get those chickens in the
backyard and do something with them.
They make you happy." And I was like,
"Okay, I have no better idea." So I went
[laughter] in the backyard and I got
Ellen DeHeneres, Oprah Henfrey, Chick
Norris, Shakira Shakira, they look
alike. I got Bruce Henner, thought it
was a hen, turned out to be a rooster.
Got Bruce Henner, got all my chickens
and I put them in the bathtub and just
improvised this bit. Um and so he my
boyfriend just walks in on me and I'm
curling Bruce Henner's hair and then I
reveal all the chickens in the bathtub.
Pretty silly, pretty basic. I turned it
in. The meme company was like, "What is
this?" I'm like, "I'm sorry, all my
footage is gone." And I kind of thought
it was funny though. And so I put it on
my Facebook page. Overnight it did 19
million views overnight. Like with the
Facebook algorithm
Oh, yeah.
>> had the algorithm back Oh, yeah, it did.
Oh my. So it 19 million views overnight
and over 100,000 followers. And I hate
that my back had to be against the wall.
I had to be that desperate for me to
just be my dang self.
And when I was myself and I did what I
thought was funny and I did something
funny with my chickens, that is what
resonated with people. So that has been
my guiding force.
>> Did that kind of have a,
you know, that realization that like
from now on I'm going to kind of just
lean on myself a little bit more here.
I'm not going to kind of abide by what
other people want me to do and lean into
their guidelines. Like was that kind of
that profound viral moment that you had
that realization where it's like, I know
what I'm doing here. That was huge for
me. It still is. I still get chills
every time I even think about that story
because anytime I start to lose my way
or be like, maybe I should do something
more like this or I start comparing
myself, I just go back to that. And when
I stick to my guns and my blue ocean,
that is when things work. Because
everybody else is already they already
got their thing. And I'm just going to
be a knockoff version of that? Where's
the fire in that? Where's the novelty
there? So the more we can create our own
lanes, the more you can create your own
lanes, the better off you're going to
be. And I think a lot of creators right
now are caring a lot more about optics
over ethics. Right? Everybody's just
trying to make a quick win, quick butt,
and so puck
buck. Just trying to make a quick buck.
So, people are just copying other people
and creating slop out there instead of
really taking the time to learn a craft.
And they're wanting to just go from the
bottom rung of the ladder to the top
rung of the ladder because the creators
they look up to make it look easy. You
guys make it look easy. You look at my
videos and make it look easy and simple,
but this is 10 years of refinement. It's
like writing a good song. It takes a lot
of work to make a complex emotion sound
that simple and write it in a way that
it is. And this this craft of
entertainment, of getting attention is
the same thing. And so, I would just
encourage everybody to not prioritize
uh optics over ethics.
>> Yeah, they they see the interview with
with a Tom Brady and the Shaq. They
don't see the hours of going downtown
day in day out trying to interview a
bunch of people. Uh I want to talk about
Facebook for a second cuz your viral
video came on Facebook. And I feel like
most people that create content today,
they sleep on Facebook. They think it's
like it's outdated, like there's not
enough And like the three of us like we
even like we caught our first like big
monetization break on Facebook that
allowed us to like for several months
like pioneer and build our business
because of like them trying to compete
with TikTok. And so like I want I want
to hear this from you like like how
important is Facebook for creators? Like
I like and I'm saying this just because
I think so many people sleep on it. We
And And just add in there 4 days ago, we
just had a 4-minute long video. This is
like 8 million views right now. Yeah.
You can't get credit though. I'm just
wanting to say That's what it is.
Facebook all day. I'm the most viewed as
as of last I was told, the most viewed
female producer in Facebook and or Meta
and Snapchat history. Wow. Not my face
and everything, but we commission, we
direct it, and we have a network of
things that we've created over the last
7 years that are still just in
circulation, you know.
>> Congratulations, seriously.
>> But as a single video like I can I can
show you a screenshot from our Facebook
man business manager of a single video
doing over a quarter million bucks.
That took us less than an hour to make.
And at our height, we were making 18
Facebook videos a day, 15 actors on
full-time staff.
>> So you made you made 250 racks off of
one video.
>> Off of one video.
>> Off of a Facebook video.
>> Off of a Facebook video. And it was all
That was all on Facebook. I know that's
earned more cuz that's just the
screenshot from one post of it. We
posted it 40-plus times. It's been all
over Snapchat, it's been everywhere, and
it's still earning money, you know, but
that's just one screenshot. So, it takes
I it does take one video to change your
life, but that one video, I think,
changes your life in the way of showing
you what's possible. It shows you that
confidence of oh my gosh, I can do this.
Cuz you still have to show up and you
have to be consistent with it day over
day, and over time, that's what's going
to change your life. But it takes one
video to get that jump start. So, I'm
curious. If someone out there is, you
know, they want to be a creator, but
they just don't necessarily know how to
get started, what's the playbook of
like, "Hey, if you want to get to your
first 10K followers, do this."
>> [snorts]
>> You have to go from It has to be
something you genuinely want to do
because it is not going to be easy at
first. And it you will just get
discouraged. We like to say everybody
has at least 100 bad videos in them that
they have to get out. So, don't make
stuff that you hate and isn't going to
make you jump out of bed in the morning.
And most of us are multi-passionate
people, right? And so, where we watch in
the Virality community a lot of people
get stuck is do I make content about law
or I'm a doctor or but I'm really
interested in baskets? Like what They
don't know what to make content about,
and they they get stuck and they spin
for months and months, sometimes years.
And so, we tell them to start with an
SRS model.
Um or sorry, 5630 method. I would tell
any creator who doesn't know where to
start to do the 5630 method, which is
pick five of the things that you're
interested in that you could want to
make content about. And make six videos
in each of those five buckets, and
you're going to post for 30 days 100%
unattached to the outcome. Do not delete
anything. Do not even look at the
videos. Don't look at the data until the
end. Just bank those 30 videos and then
post one a day. Five six videos in each
of the five styles. And at the end of 30
days, you have thoughts about what you
created, right? Maybe you were really
excited about bucket number one, and you
now realize that's unsustainable for my
lifestyle, and holy crap, that was hard,
and I don't want to do that anymore. Or
maybe buckets three and four, which you
thought were like, "Okay." But that took
off, and you actually did really like
doing it. So, then take buckets three
and four and focus on month two doubling
down on those. You have to just get into
action and then look at the data and let
that decide.
>> The The point that I want to point out
there is the action
piece of it. It wasn't that like So So
many people they get into analysis
paralysis where they're like uh they're
trying to make this one perfect video.
They don't like how they look, and it's
just like
you don't even know if the type of video
you're going to make is going to hit
with the audience. They might want they
like you might think like, "Oh, let me
do this. Like this is going to be good."
But they might want to The audience
wants a completely different piece of
content from you. You just have to
figure that out what that is, and you
can't do that unless you experiment with
a bunch of different ideas. Interviews
was not our first piece of content. We
didn't
>> Mhm. We didn't go out there and be like,
"Oh, we're going to be a business
interview channel." No, we just were
passionate about business media like we
just were passionate about business. So,
we we did made like 30 different video
ideas in the business space
>> over and over and over again until we
went out and did an interview, and it
got the first one got 100,000 views. And
we're like, "Okay, we should do more of
that interview thing." And then
is telling us they like They don't want
to hear from the 20-year-olds about
business. They want They like when we go
and talk to people that have actually
played the game." And that's when we
made the pivot. But you don't get to
that point unless you follow a method
like that where it's like you're taking
action, making a bunch of different
types of content,
>> Yeah. and and it gives you the data
back. And you just can't get
discouraged. If it's not working out,
you just keep reiterating. Yeah, and you
have to. And that's the part that people
don't want to do is the action piece, is
the failure piece. That is the only way
through. That is the right of passage.
That is what allows you to play, is the
failing forward and looking at the data
and being dedicated to the outcome,
knowing that you're going to win, you're
going to figure this out. And if you
already know the outcome is that you
win, then it's just how many failed
videos does it take? It will happen
eventually. But that's why we say to
everybody, you have at least 100 bad
videos in there. So, we don't know. You
could hit on video 17. You could hit on
video 76. You could hit on video 712.
You never know when you're going to hit.
But if you keep yourself in this game
and surround yourself with community and
other people who can say what they see
in you on days you forget it, you're
going to be all right. The The There
There's so so much gold to unpack here.
I got to touch on, you know, two two
things here is first of all, you brought
up uh having those 100 bad videos. We'll
go back to our, you know, first couple
YouTube videos, and it it it's a tough
watch.
>> Yeah. It's a little unbearable
sometimes. I was like, "Look, don't go
If you're watching this right now, don't
go watch that video." We We look
unkempt. Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> It's It's insane. And And there's a lot
of truth to that, but it just goes to
show, and that's why I'm such an
advocate that look, quantity breeds
quality. The more you post, the more
data you're going to get to figure out,
"Hey, like you said, you double down on
this. You 10X that. You You take that
idea behind the barn, you shoot it, and
you don't touch it again, you know."
>> Yes. Um so, I think there's I think
there's so much truth to that. Um and
then the other thing I want to touch on
is again, you you
you just have to you have to stay in the
game because it for some people it is
their 100th video. The amount of
successful creators that I've talked to
where
I I like to ask them, I'm curious, "How
many videos did you post before you had
one that went really viral?"
And oftentimes it's it took them 50th,
100th, 200th. I tell everybody,
Hadley, when we had we have 7.3 million
followers on Instagram now.
When we had we posted 400 times on
Instagram and had less than 50
followers. Wow.
>> Now But that that's the thing. Now,
granted, before I started the School of
Hard Knocks, I had grown a personal
channel from 2019 to 2020 on TikTok to
about 800,000 followers in 10 months.
So, I knew the capability of short-form
content and how to go viral. Now, that
was having that with with Hard Knocks
and understanding that it's like I
learned the fact that if you're just
consistent, if you're feeding stuff to
the algorithm, something can pop as long
as you're diligent about making pivots,
trying different things.
Where I wanted to kind of ask you was a
You're You're hearing that in today's
world, the two biggest opportunities for
people are AI and building personal
brands. In terms of somebody wanting to
build that personal brand, when when
you're kind of advising people, right?
How much of a focus, you know, and I
know that you touched on this a little
bit, but I wanted to kind of just really
get your thought process on this.
Uh people are like, "Should I make just
content about, you know, I'm a real
estate investor. Should I just make real
estate content?" Or are you more of the
advocate of them making throwing videos
in about having different content
pillars like about family and faith and
and real estate and money and and
talking about their bad investments?
Like are you What is your thought
process on building a real good personal
brand?
We are all multi-dimensional people. And
I'll give you a case study, actually.
One of our clients was Brian Mark at the
Real Brian Mark. He was doing about $6
million a year as a business coach to
fitness trainers.
Pretty niche thing.
And pretty saturated, actually, of
business coaches for fitness trainers
online. And he understood the power of
organic. 95% of his sales were probably
coming from his Instagram. And he was
stuck at $6 million a year, and he
couldn't get any more growth. And what
his content was was just very
one-dimensional, yelling aggressively at
the camera all the time. That's the only
dimension of Brian that we saw.
And I was like, "Brian, you are a
hilarious person. You are so dang funny.
You have an amazing relationship with
your wife. You have a tight sales
system. All you need is more attention.
And we're going to get you more
attention by not being just the
aggressive yelling business coach all
the time. Because if I'm somebody who's
scrolling and I don't like being
screamed at, I'm gone. That's attracting
a very small group of people when you
are a dynamic human. So, all we did for
him talk talk to him 1 hour a week and
my whole goal was tweaking one thing.
One thing that was his top of funnel
content to show these other parts of his
personality, these other parts of his
life, his relationship, his humor, the
back end of his finances, all of these
different dynamic pillars that we're
going to talk to 10 Gen Z themes around
his core avatar and just broaden his
message. In less than 6 months, we
doubled his following and took him from
6 million a year to 10 million a year
tweaking one thing, making him more
dynamic than just being the guy who
yells at the camera all the time.
Well, it just goes to show you where we
love the saying where attention goes,
revenue flows.
>> Amen. And you asked earlier where I
first like was like the creator economy
is it is that. When we when COVID
happened and everybody is on their
phones like this, we went from averaging
20 million views a week, which I was
already stoked with, to over 200 million
views a week. And we've been at over a
billion views a month ever since cuz
then it was just building systems to get
as much attention as possible. And this
was coming from a mentor when he told
me, Adley, I was trying to niche down
and he goes, do not. Do not. He goes, go
as wide as you possibly can and then you
can niche down and do whatever the heck
you want.
>> content mentor?
Oh, I have several. Um I got started
from a guy named Rick Lax who owns a
pretty big network on Facebook and he's
a magician by trade. And he taught me
how as a magician how to hold attention.
How to say, "Hey, everybody, look at
this crazy thing." while you're doing
slight of hand over here, which are
retention tactics and engagement tactics
and all the things that we teach in
Viralish. Um but he as a magician has a
really strong skill set for getting
people
>> I I feel I love what you said about the
retention tactics. I
one thing that we preach and and to kind
of relate it to our interviews is
sometimes the smallest things in your
video can be the difference between one
1 million views and 10 million views.
For sure.
>> somebody has a you know, a dog in the
video and it's going crazy in the
background. Somebody walks by and
they're and it's like the littlest
things. Like you said, waving the hand,
somebody doing something crazy in the
background. It makes the littlest
difference sometimes.
>> if you can plant those things
intentionally, that's what we teach
people how to do because you can
literally engineer virality by taking
another step to think about it and
design your comment section in reverse.
We never make a video without knowing
exactly what we want this comment
section to look like. And once you know
that those are the little things that
take you from a million views to 10
million views, why would you not put
them in every video? So, what you're
saying is for everyone watching that
it's not luck, there's a formula.
>> 1,000%. When we looked at all of our
most viral videos, videos that have done
over 300 million views on a single
video, every all of our videos that are
over 100 million views. We have over 50
million or sorry, we have over 50 videos
I'm sorry. We have over 75 videos that
have over 100 million views.
Bless you.
>> [laughter]
>> On a single video. Right? And so, when
you look at all the best performing
videos, it becomes very clear
the formula becomes very clear of the
cream of the crop and you're like, "Oh
my gosh, all of these top performing
videos have the same things in common."
So, our formula revealed itself to us
and then we had to just curriculumize it
and be like, "Okay, what we so innately
know about how to make videos go viral."
Just like you guys so innately know it
now, how do you teach that to other
people? Cuz you just know and you you
don't know why, but that's that's been
the hardest part is to articulate this
formula. But now, we've done it and we
have a community of the most bi- viral
business owners and entrepreneurs on
social media. Let's let's talk about
that psychology of a viral video, right?
Because, you know, I I know that just
like you like we we obsess over this
stuff right here. You know, you've
you've got your first couple seconds.
You want a good pattern to interrupt
curiosity. What is what is your real
psychology and formula for that viral
video, regardless of the niche that
somebody's in? Well, you nailed it. That
this is so everybody's like, "Oh, of
course the hook." They're going to say
the hook. It is all that matters. Not
all that matters, but it is the first
thing that matters. We could sit here
and dissect videos till the cows come
home and none of it will matter if
nobody sees it. Like we'll teach
anchoring tactics and we'll teach all
these things to people. And so, this
girl Erin came up to me last month. She
was like, "Ad, I tried the anchoring
tactic and you know, it didn't work."
>> that? The anchoring tactic? An anchor
would be something that you show in the
first few seconds that is an anchor to
what is going to be revealed later in
the
>> loop. It's happening with like It's
happening with like retention almost to
like get people to want to watch from
start to finish. [snorts] Yes.
>> who's the master of that?
Mr. Beast. Yes, he is. Yes, he is. So,
there's the same principles. Like we're
not reinventing the wheel here. This is
age-old storytelling. This is before
biblical times of what makes a good
story. Look at every movie you like,
every sitcom. If Ross and Rachel stayed
together in season 2, would we have 10
seasons of Friends? No. If Liam Neeson
rescued his daughter from sex slavery
halfway through the movie, would we keep
watching? No. You have to have a hook, a
curiosity, an emotion that happened here
and you do not scratch that itch until
the very end. We're just all taking that
and putting it in a format for social
media, but it's the same principles. You
know, it just shows up in different
ways.
>> I love the analogy and and I'm I'm I'm
taking that one about the movies, right?
You don't you don't put the the ending
of Taken in the middle and it and you
have to have that same mindset even with
the short form video. But one of the
things that you said was you don't have
to reinvent the wheel. And I think that
what keeps so many content creators just
stuck and prevents them from creating is
they think they have to invent this new
idea and whatever niche that they're in.
I talk about this all the time. Street
interviews have been around for 20
years. Every single major news
corporation television has been
utilizing those for their companies. I I
didn't invent it. I became an innovator
within the niche. But I want to ask you,
how much are you we we talk about this a
lot. You know, when I was building my
personal brand on TikTok and went from 0
to 800k,
I I would spend an hour plus a day
and people say doom scrolling where
you're just scrolling, but like finding
like great videos that people were doing
to try and, you know, get some
inspiration from them and how could I
add my own creativity to this type of
video? Do you still spend time like
consuming other people's contents and
and studying other viral videos to see
what they're doing to kind of come up
with ideas for your own content that
you're creating or maybe other clients
that, you know, you're working with? How
much time do you spend diligently kind
of scrolling and consuming other
people's content to come up with those
ideas? About an hour a day. It you are
always a student. What worked 6 months
ago, what worked 4 months ago, doesn't
work today. And so, especially if you
want to innovate, you can't break the
rules unless you know what they are. So,
it's very important to know what's going
on right now. It's very important to
know the age-old rules, the current
rules, and then take it and twist and
put your own spin on it. For when we
first started making videos, it's mostly
couples prank type stuff. And so, what
we would do there is get really good at
taking ordinary moments, really
relatable things, and then just 10Xing
them, making them feel extraordinary.
For example, if I wanted a dog and my
husband didn't want a dog, very common
relationship thing, very common
relationship argument. So, I would turn
our apartment into a barnyard for the
day
to show how much I would just take
everything and 10X it. If we couldn't go
on a vacation, I would put a hot tub in
our living room. And so, these are
things that people feel innately like,
"Oh my god, that's she's so me." And the
husband is, "That's so me." So, the
shareability was high, the association
with us is high because they see
themselves in us, but it's just
exaggerated, so it's more viral. It's
bigger. It's on a different scale. So,
what you just said there is actually
what I also believe builds the best
personal brand is a sense of
relatability. 1,000%. Because often
times
when people I start to I used to say see
success, they become out of reach. And
they start to elevate themselves and
their lifestyle and they forget like who
their core audience is and who they're
motivating, who they're actually
speaking to. But you always have to
remember it doesn't matter even though
you're hitting new levels within your
business or just even new stages within
life, you can't forget who that core
customer, who that core viewer is
because if you lose the relatability,
you're going to lose your audience.
>> There was like the the guy that used to
make the content for like
There was a guy that basically he used
to make content where he would like do
his day in the life of like going to
like a corporate job, basically. And
then he was like he got this big
following. He's like, "All right, well,
I want to quit my corporate job now and
go make content like trying to make
money on my own." And his audience just
on him like completely. And it
probably wasn't just because he like we
you know, was doing something better for
his life. It was just sort of the way
that he went about it. It was like he
completely just He's like, "Well, hey,
y'all got me here. So, now I'm going to
do whatever I want." And he just
completely abandoned his audience of
people that would watch his videos cuz
they were they were working at they were
in the corporate community. And so, they
watched this guy and it's just very
interesting to see like it's like, "Hey,
like you can't like, you know,
abandon the audience that got you to
where you are." It's so true. How you
get somebody is how you have to keep
them. I heard that once for dating, but
it's I think even more true in business
and relationship with an audience. And
that's not to say you can't grow, you
can't evolve, but you have to take them
with you if you want them to stick
around. They Look at Taylor Swift. She's
a wonderful example of this and she
could sell you a water bottle She could
sell you her spit right now because
she's taken her audience with them
everywhere she goes. She feels like and
I'm not a Swifty. You're not wrong.
Somebody would buy that.
>> So, other For sure they would.
>> That's That's a cult following right
there. I've never seen anything like
that. No, but she put in the work early
to love on her fans and involve them in
the experience. She leaves little Easter
eggs for them everywhere. She feels like
one of us who made it. And so, they're
excited for her because she hasn't made
them feel forgotten. And then I think
the creators that are trying to make
themselves bigger than life right now
and unapproachable and unrelatable, like
they're too cool for school, is not
going to last. Even what worked for the
Paul brothers,
I don't think it's going to work now.
Like you're in big beast, it's almost
too big to feel like one of us who made
it cuz there wasn't this fandom along
the way. And now the creators who you
see winning are really close with their
audiences on TikTok. You have what's her
nuts that just ended up on SNL over her
TikTok following. Like these are the new
stars of the future and these people who
are connecting with their audience and
their audience helps them get there. And
they feel like a true extension. They're
the brand that they helped create feels
like an extension of them. They have
buy-in. And so to cut that
to make that divide to cut that off
it is you're asking for career suicide.
It's such a good reminder because
as like now with with the channel that
we built, you know, the access that
we've gotten to certain people has like
grown tremendously. But as we started to
kind of do a little bit more like the
A-listers, we'll we'll get DMs of people
going, "We didn't follow you for this.
We didn't follow you for that." They
they they they like the the
off-the-street, the random person that
nobody knows. And so but you have to
listen to that part of the audience and
that's why I always tell people that
it's like, "Hey, I'm going to continue
to take advantage of like the access
that we've been granted, but you can't
forget that reason why people followed
you. Otherwise, you're going to lose
that core base and the people that were
with you from the beginning and you
don't want to lose that part of the
audience."
>> How do you find the balance between
letting the comments letting other
people dictate your business direction
and still giving them a voice still
listening to them but not letting them
solely decide where you go. In essence,
letting the haters drive. Mhm.
I think I think that's a
it's a really interesting question
because I think it really depends on
like the context for example, right?
Like
you're always no matter what you do,
there's going to be a subset of the
community or just viewers who are just
like not going to like the direction you
go. But I think if you get an over like
a resounding voice from the comments
like, "Hey, don't really like where
you're taking this direction.
Don't really like this type of feature
whatever it may be or just maybe the
style of video."
That is a symptom of like, "Okay,
maybe I can try it maybe once, maybe
twice more, but hey, this may not be
where I'm going to take my brand in the
future."
But I will also say that like I mean
we'll even see like with with our
videos. Like there's like certain parts
of our videos where people like, "Oh,
like I don't actually like the fact that
maybe you mentioned money for example."
Well, it's like well money is is
actually a core pillar of our of our,
you know,
>> Yeah. our, you know, brand and like kind
of what makes our videos what they are.
So, I really feel like there is no
perfect balance of like
ah, you know, a lot of like I don't
know. I I don't really feel like there's
a perfect balance. What would you What
would you say, James? Like is there like
when you when you see comments on our
videos,
how do you kind of take that into
consideration for like future videos
that you make in the future? Well, I
mean I'm always I'm always a big
advocate of like bad engagement is
better than no engagement in most cases.
But at the same time, I think yeah, like
if it's if there's like something like
resounding there where it's like, you
know, general consensus is people don't
like that, then you should probably like
shift away for that. And and again,
especially when you get to a certain
scale and mass, there's always going to
be people that find something to kind of
like hate on and and say something about
it. You just you just can't let it get
to you. You just have to keep on
creating great content and keep on
innovating. You know what I mean? As
long as you keep it authentic. I wanted
to ask for people that have like gotten
some traction
>> Mhm. on their videos and then out of
nowhere like it's just not really
hitting anymore. They kind of hit a
plateau. Like for example, we hit a
point in our journey where we were stuck
at like 150k on Instagram for like 3
months and we
we we
made small pivots to our videos to help
us get out of that.
But for people that kind of go through
that like plateau, like they always like
to say, "Oh, I'm shadow banned." Or
It's not the content. Never the content.
>> [laughter]
>> The
algorithm changed. The algorithm's
changed and now my content doesn't hit.
It's like it's
it's anything but the content. So
I'll just say this, the best comments to
read and it's I this I'm awful it's
awful I'm saying this is the head of
Instagram. If you read his comments,
it's always like, "Why are my videos
getting new new views or anything?" You
go check out the the videos of their
profile. I'm just like, "Well,
have you looked at the content you're
making?" Like it it honestly makes
sense. And they but the thing is
they think the content is good. They are
precious with it. But if you want
unlimited access to distribution, you
don't make what you want to
watch. You don't make what you want to
watch. You make what they want to watch.
And if you make what other people want
to watch, you will never have an an
issue getting views. Do you think I
wanted to make the cringiest videos on
Facebook for 3 and 1/2 years and get
death threats and people waste 3 minutes
of their life what creating rage bait,
creating food dump videos, creating all
this stuff? I would never watch that.
I'm not that interested in it. But the
data showed us that is what people
wanted to watch. So who am I to say,
"No, you're going to be entertained by
the same thing I'm entertained by." And
I think the courage to be disliked in
this process of creating is also a rite
of passage. You have to have your own
convictions and I'm not saying make
stuff you hate. You have to also like
it. You have to know people are also
going to poo-poo you all the way up,
especially the bigger that you go. That
is just a part of it. That's so
important because I think some of the
best, you know, content creation advice
that I've ever heard is you want to make
your content as if if if a complete
stranger were to see your content, would
they be inclined to save or share that
video?
>> Yes. If you can do that and and and
remove your emotional attachment, oh, I
look so good here, you know, and and and
get out of that mindset, it's like you
were going to be so much better off. You
have You have to think about if a random
person saw this, would they care? You
know, we work with a lot of top
entrepreneurs in helping them grow their
personal brands. And I'm going to cuss
here. I'm sorry. But I'm just going to
say
one of the one of the the
uh
best things that I can tell anybody is
stop making the assumption that people
know who the you are.
>> No one knows. No one knows you.
Even now [clears throat] with with
>> Yeah, well, as you guys know,
as you guys know, I closed my last deal
and it's like, "Dude, you've got a thou
you got 5,000 followers."
It's crazy. I I say look, even now with
with, you know, 17 million followers,
I'm still making this as if people have
never seen That's why I'm always it's
always a walk-up or who am I here with
today and it's like I'm always trying to
like I always have that mentality that
you want to make it as if they never
have seen you before and you you get
them in, you know. Is your a pro. And
you don't know that in the beginning.
Like we would use our names. Like, "Hey,
Blake, come over here." No, nobody knows
who Blake is.
>> [laughter]
>> Nobody knows who your neighbor is.
Nobody knows who Adley is. Like you have
to make it as if it's brand new. Every
single video is a hero video. There's no
Last week, my boyfriend did XYZ. So this
week, I'm going to Nobody saw that. Now
I already feel like I'm missing out on
something. Do I What did I miss? I got
to go back and watch Ah, too much. Too
much effort. Don't make it any effort
for them to pick up and be in the story
immediately.
>> Society has the attention span of a
goldfish today. Probably probably in due
part because of social media. Because of
social media. And so like
>> [laughter]
>> like people don't understand that it's
like it takes it could take a There's a
thousand different reasons for somebody
to scroll past your video. All we're
trying to do, all of us, is prevent that
half a second of disinterest. And that
is why suspense is so freaking powerful.
Look at all of the viral videos. Look at
the most viral videos that you could
think of that you love. Now watch it as
a student and look at what was at stake
and how high the suspense was. And that
will be why you watched that video. And
that will also be the reason it was so
viral. I I I have to give you your
flowers as well because you you did a
call in our in our entrepreneur
community that that we had.
>> Oh, yes. And and you know, I there was a
one that just came to mind, but even
just throughout the entire call like I'm
I'm the same way as was like I'm I'm
such a student. That's why I love this
conversation. And when you meet people
that have just had so much success in in
in content, it's like you want to be a
sponge to to them and what they're doing
and what they've learned about it. And I
remember I think it was a a lady Celia.
She's got like a seven-figure security
company and she was asking, you know,
"Hey, I've got a security company. How
would you make content?" And you just
had ideas that came off like that for
her and I was like, "Damn, that's that's
a really good idea, you know." So
I think your ability to kind of take
very boring businesses and concepts and
make them very fun is like a skill and
something that like I I just have to say
like it's it's fascinating that you have
that. Oh, thank you. And that's reps.
That's doing it all day every day
looking at so much content being a
student. I've broken down y'all's videos
shot by shot. What is the first opening
frame? Is it blurry? Is it to your back?
Is your face in the front? Like
everything because all these little
details matter. That's why it looks so
simple to do, but you realize it people
try to copy videos beat for beat. Like
I'm going to do that exact same video.
And they don't realize how off they are
because it is the nuance, the little
bitty things that make that are the
difference between good and great. If I
had a nickel for every retention graph
I've analyzed and then gone back and
fixed the video based off the retention
graph, I would be richer.
Sound a bad. But like that would be
where all the money comes from is the
amount of studying that I've done. If I
got paid for as much as I study, would
be more than I actually create.
>> So curious to get your thoughts on this.
You know, I'm the same way about content
in a lot of ways that I'm very
analytical. I'm always curious about
like
everybody's always going to have a kind
of a different answer, right? And
obviously it's it's you mentioned the
Instagram CEO, you know, he's been
pretty transparent about like, "Hey,
what drives performance in content?" You
know, from my understanding is I always
think of the most important metric on
social media is watch time and
completion rate. They they the the
platforms, TikTok, Instagram, Facebook,
YouTube, at at the end of the day,
they're competing against each other.
They're going to reward the creators
that are keeping people on their on
their platform watching content longer.
What are some other metrics that you
think are, you know, up there if if we
know that hey, watch time is probably
the most important thing. Would you
agree with that?
>> 1,000%.
>> What are some maybe some other metrics
that you're always kind of thinking
about that's kind of like up there
within with the importance of watch time
when when you're trying to determine
metrics for a viral video? I mean he
really stole the golden goose. It is
watch time. That's why we made these
videos that wasted 3 minutes of people's
life. We were making so much more money
every second we held you on the
platform. So, if you [clears throat]
want to optimize for anything,
watch time. And people you can get there
in a few different ways for your
channel. Some people get there and have
and heat up their page by doing one
banger a week. Like right now, I'm not
in a place to do a ton of volume. So,
I'm making sure what I actually post is
hot, is going to be good to keep my page
hot and healthy. But, other people So,
say I got 52 million views this week.
Somebody else may get 52 million views
by doing four posts a day, right? And
so, they're getting their watch time by
volume, which you should do in the
beginning to get your reps in, to learn
what you're doing, and then double down
on what's working. But, I could get
there
the same way, but with quantity. But,
you only to your point, you only know
what quantity is once you've done enough
quality.
>> Right. But, and and that's the other
thing as well as one of the biggest
debates is is a quantity or quality,
quantity or quality.
I tell people all the time for us
like the last video that we've posted on
Instagram that has under a million views
was April 2024.
So, almost a year and a half ago was the
last time we posted on Instagram and got
under a million views. And when we post
now, one to three million views on a
video, that really we don't really gain
followers off that. So, now it went from
like when we were starting the channel,
you have to tell her Jack that kind of
the rule of thumb that we had about the
three posts a day. Oh, yeah. Well, like
I said when we were starting out, like
we weren't doing interviews initially.
And so, we used to have this trade-off
we had a company rule that was like,
"Okay, well, like day one, you know,
it's Jack. Day two, James. Day three,
Josh." And on that day, you had to get
your three posts up that were all
different unique ideas to help us
experiment and figure out like what you
know, what help us get closer to finding
what content people are going to want to
see from us. And if you didn't get your
posts up that day, like all you had to
get all three. If you didn't get all
three posts up, you had to Venmo the
other guys 25 bucks each. Yeah. So, and
it was like that because we wanted to
breed that consistency and and
it wasn't that like all three videos
were necessarily bangers by any sense,
but it was the that repetition of like,
let me try to come up with as many
concepts as possible. And you we would
have stuff that would like get 100,000
views here there, but when we you know,
it wouldn't wasn't as consistent as when
we saw the interviews. It was every
single one we posted people were But, as
you grow and you and you get that core
audience, then it's like, "Okay, let's
get away from the quota posting. Oh, I
got my two posts up." And that's and and
now it's like, you know, I I I post, you
know, I like to say every other day,
maybe three to four times a week. But,
you know, those three to four times a
week, I mean, we generate off of the
channel 250 million views a month across
all platforms. So, again, it it it does
come down to where I think at a certain
point, great content is always going to
perform and and you want to just
optimize for like the content that is
guaranteed that you know can get a lot
of views, you know.
>> And you let the data tell you what's
great. Like if somebody's like, "I am
posting great content and it's not
working." That's why Viral-ish exists is
to be that creative bridge to say,
"Here's actually how to make it great."
from a data perspective. We can't be
precious about it. This is not art. This
is social media. And there's it's kind
it can be an art form, meaning
there's a craft and there's a science to
what makes it work, but it was really a
marriage of art and science. It's the
science of the art of bringing something
into the world, but it data tells us
whether it's good or not. And I even say
that with a grain of salt because we
have made so many videos that are
good from a data or an earning
perspective. They have hundreds of
millions of views, but they're it's not
a good video. It's not like making the
world a better place. So, I want to
shift a little bit more now because we
went from, you know, talked about how
you had that first big viral moment on
Facebook, the 19 million views or and
then and then we were all in on the the
the psychology, virality, everything. I
want to talk about the business side of
things now, though, because and and I I
I feel like you would probably like this
one. One of our favorite sayings is is
that great businessmen are terrible
content creators and great content
creators are terrible businessmen. I
mean, most influencers are broke. Yeah.
>> of them are. And it's cuz they don't
understand the business side of media.
What was your evolution in building your
media company to the eight-figure, you
know, brand and company that it is
today? Like you've worked with some of
the biggest companies in the world. What
has kind of been your journey in in
building the media company out, you
know, to to the point where it is today?
What's made me developing, being in like
I've developed into a good
businesswoman. I didn't start that way.
I was good at sales. I was good at
people. And I was only good at sales
because I was good with people. But, I
was good with people cuz I'm entertainer
first, right? And so, I [snorts] think
when you have enough belief and skill
set and you found your zone of genius,
that's where you resonate and then it
becomes easy to do business with you.
And then you can be a good business
person. If you serve people well, you
protect your reputation, and you offer
high value and you deliver on what you
say you're going to do. Now, there's
more to it obviously than that, but
that's the foundation of it. It's
solving other people's problems, even if
it was just entertaining people. We
solve people's problems by you guys do
by many ways, but on your top of funnel,
you close the gap of showing other
people what's possible. You bring the
most aspirational people in the world
down to bite-size accessibility that
somebody can they get a little bit
closer by watching your page. They get a
little bit more educated. When we
started, we were making videos that
entertained people mostly during COVID.
We made them them smile more. So, people
come to my page and they knew what to
expect. They knew they were going to
laugh or they were going to feel seen or
a little bit less crazy cuz I do a lot
of self-deprecating humor, right? So,
you're solving a problem for them,
whether it's business problem or on the
emotional spectrum somewhere. And then,
I think even as a content creator, I've
now I was just telling James and you
guys before we started, I've talked
myself into a into a desk job building
out the business because it is harder
than just making videos. But, if you
make great content and that is your
front end,
building the business becomes a lot
easier if you're great at one thing
first. I think it's really interesting
we talk about, you know, turning
attention into actual revenue
because we had our own fault and and
literally hard knock within this journey
of one of the first things that we did
is I'd say about a year maybe a year
half year and a half in is we created,
you know, a canvas store, a motivational
canvas store. Cuz I look people watch
our videos because they want to feel
inspired, they want to feel motivated.
And so, we just assumed that our
audience would like a product of
motivational canvas art. And so, we put
probably, you know, $20,000 into this
you know, adventure and sold only a few
canvases. And we're like, "Man,
why did this not work?" And this is the
biggest lesson that I think we've
learned and also learned from just
working with some of the biggest brands
in the world is that the biggest problem
that a person can make or a creator can
make is assuming what their audience
wants.
You can never assume what your audience
actually wants. You have to ask. And so,
within our new ventures like let's just
say our community for example where we
bridge, you know, our audience that have
millionaires and billionaires that we
interview and connect them
is we asked them. We we we did polls,
questions is because I look like a
fitness trainer for example. Is maybe
you're successful fitness creator and
you know, people follow you. They
thought you you have some guide. You you
show your workouts. And you start to
sell your workout plan. And you know, it
maybe it's getting a couple sales, but
it's just not really going the way that
you want. You're like, "Man, why is this
not really working
as well as I thought it was going to
be?" It's because you never asked and
what they really wanted was your diet
plans. Mhm. And you're selling them the
wrong thing.
And so,
for you, you know, working with some of
the biggest brands and and biggest
people in the world, at what point, you
know, they're they're attention they're
they're generating they're excuse me,
they're making videos that generate
attention. How do you balance making
videos for attention, but also making
videos to generate revenue for their
product or service? Great question. And
we like to say more attention equals
more leads. More leads equals more
sales, right? Nobody can buy from you if
they don't know you exist. So, you guys
even before you started monetizing, you
were just doing this for like free
value, before the community, before you
had anything to sell, right? And I think
that is the most important part is to
build an audience and then there's
niches inside of even an audience,
right? Um so, I would say
>> [snorts]
>> build like a lot of people are like,
"I'm not going to start social media
until I have something to sell." I think
that's a horrible idea. This is so good.
>> Keep going.
They're like, "Well, I'm not going to
start my Instagram yet because I got to
figure out how I'm going to monetize
it." No, cuz now you're doing it
backwards of what you just said where
you're going to say, "I'm creating this
thing and then I'm going to go market
this." You don't know if that's what
people want. Build it. Do you have that
friend that's ever like joined an MLM or
something? No, knock on MLMs, but every
time you're around them, they're trying
to sell you on something. You can knock
on them if you want. You can knock
>> [laughter]
>> But, any time we've all had those
friends who are just always trying to
get you in on something, trying to sell
you something. We don't like that friend
in real life. So, why are you going to
be that person online where every time
you're making a video, you're online,
you're just trying to sell people stuff?
No, you can build a world in which your
product exists seamlessly and then it
will be effortless flow. You're not
going to deal with pitch fatigue. Hot
Ones is a great example of that. One of
my favorites. They sell buffalo sauce
and they just exited for 86.5 million
dollars.
>> Why do you think they sold for that
much?
>> They created a world around the product.
They never had to pitch that buffalo
sauce. They created a what we call an
SRS, a simple repeatable scalable format
that you eat these it's an interview
style format and the questions get
harder as the wings get hotter.
And simple, easy, repeatable. And so,
you learn the buffalo sauce just by way
of how the format is going. And you
know, by the time Jennifer Garner gets
to Blazin' But, that the question's
going to be fire, you know? Like, and so
is her mouth, you know? Like, that's
just it's you don't have to explain it,
it happens. And so now people just learn
the sauces because they created a world
around it that is entertaining first.
And if you entertain people, you can
earn the right to educate them and
eventually sell them on whatever you
want.
>> that is so smart. And I was, you know,
me and Nolan were just in Beverly Hills
the other day and there was a young
gentleman that had, you know, came up to
us. They they loved the content and they
were like, "Man, [snorts] I've got, you
know, 4,000 followers right now. You
know, how he was asking me this question
about, how do I monetize? What should I
brand? What should I build?" And it's
like, I I for a second I thought about
it. I was like, "Hmm, this is the
content you're making. How do you
monetize?" And I said, "You got You got
to build a brand. Like, you got 4,000
followers. That's not an audience.
Double down on building a brand." Now,
in our case, we didn't launch like
something until we did have millions of
followers. And I'm not saying you have
to wait until then, but like get some
raving fans. Like, build that brand.
It's going to It may take a a couple
years, but media is a long game. Accept
that. You know, I mean, come up with
some other ways to make money off the
content in the meantime. But when it
comes to like really selling or building
a product out, if you got a couple
thousand followers, you know audiences,
it's hard to convert off of just that
many people. You want to build a big
brand first. That needs to be the
emphasis. I agree. And there are the
people who will die on the other hill,
but I think we can all agree that most
people have been sold a lie that is
keeping them small. And there are those
people who can I talked to a girl 2
weeks ago. She made 40 grand last month
off of 2,000 followers. She's doing
great and she's talking to her core
audience all the time, but she probably
has one of largest TAMs ever. Most
people that aren't going to do that. You
would have better luck by building an
audience first and going bigger. There
is a difference between cultural
relevance and contextual relevance.
Jefferson Fisher is a great example of
this and one of my favorites where most
people, he's a trial lawyer from Texas,
okay? Go look him up. Great example of
this. Trial lawyer from Texas. You think
he has 6 million followers on Instagram
because he's talking about law?
No. He's talking about what litigation
actually is, which is miscommunication.
And so he teaches people, he macroed out
and teaches people how to have a better
next conversation. So his content looks
like, here's what to say next time
somebody's gaslighting you. Here's what
to say or if your wife ever says this,
here's what to do. And it's something
every wife ever has like said. He's
talking about something that is
relatable to literally everyone, but
it's macroed from the basis of what he's
learned in his expertise. So his funnel
is natural, right? With audience and
then niche. And now he's what, a New
York Times number one best seller and
his law practice is doing excellent
because more people know about him, know
that he exists. So when realtors
especially, it's always the realtors,
and they're like, "Well, I only want
followers who are going to buy from me."
Like, okay, Tammy, you want 12 followers
for the house you're going to sell this
year?
No. Build a brand so when I'm ready
>> that customer's going to purchase from
you once a decade, basically, if if
that. Maybe maybe not. So I'm like,
Becky, go bigger. Be a realtor so when
I'm ready to buy a house, you're who I
think of. Or my friend's looking to buy
a house, so I send her your profile. You
have to be more known. You don't have to
be, but I would say attention is an arms
race right now and your competitor is
using AI. They are mass clipping, they
are incentivized clipping, they are
using synthetic content to go be more
known because if I offered you one
billboard in Nashville or 100 billboards
in Nashville
and they're free, which social media is,
which one are you going to take?
100 billboards because that's the person
who has more attention, so they're most
likely going to get the business when
the time is right.
>> I I I want to touch on the realtor
example because I think it's a good one
cuz it piggybacks off your point about
total addressable market.
Most realtors, when they make content,
this can go for anybody that makes
content for a local market. Like, most
realtors, they just they want to make
content to target people. Everyone's
like, "Well, how do you target someone
if it's organic?" Like,
they want to make content that's
specifically targeting people in their
local market that could buy home homes
from them. Well, they're just like, "Oh,
I'm just going to do this like house
tour real quick and people are going to
see the nice homes." It's like,
who who like how many people are going
to like like could be your potential
customer are are going to see that
content and want to buy from you? It's
like, maybe when they're in the the mood
to go buy a house, maybe. But what if
who is your total addressable market?
It's all the people in the age of people
that can buy homes in your in the in
that area or people that might be
wanting to move there. What content do
they consume? Well, that's families.
That's That's husbands. That's wives.
That's mothers. That's fathers. They
want to go do fun things in the local
area. So why aren't you not making like
you can like some of your content needs
to touch on the real estate stuff, but
like go make content about, you know,
the best restaurants in town. Go make
content about the best activities in
town. What are fun things to do? What
are some memes about the city?
And and all those ideas can captivate
your entire total addressable market. So
now when, you know, somebody that
followed you 3 years ago is in the mood
to buy a house because they followed you
for because you found the best fajitas
in town, well, you post a video with a
nice
house, you know, three three four
bedroom house and now that like they're
your customer. And they never would have
been if you would have never made the
fajitas video. And that is one of the
hardest things to get people to do. When
we teach people how to make viral videos
and good top of funnel content, that's
really where we over index cuz most
people they're good at being the expert.
They're good about talking about their
thing, but they're staying too small.
They're so focused on conversions,
they're missing the bigger picture,
which is we are in the greatest wave of
free advertising that the world has ever
seen. So go a little bit wider and do
yourself the largest favor ever of
becoming known.
One of the things
One of the things that I wanted to ask
is, you know, we're we're kind of
talking a little bit a little bit here
about turning content creation, you
know, in into building like the the
business side of things, but to that,
let let's kind of talk to that person
that they're wanting to pursue content
creation as a full-time job or or
eventually build it into a business.
In those early years, early months per
se, it is hard to monetize at the
beginning, especially like, you know, I
would tell that person with 4,000
followers to not worry about building a
product or service to sell yet and
rather double down on building the brand
and the content. But one of the biggest
mistakes that we all see, you know,
creators when they're starting out make,
especially as they're coming up because
it is hard to monetize, is they dilute
their brands. They start to kind of do
some BS little, you know, brand deals or
promos or sponsorships for certain
people and it's like I just don't think
that's the way to go.
Outside of and maybe this is the answer
a little bit,
ad revenue, right? And, you know, we
were fortunate, we got invited into, you
know, this Facebook Reels bonus program.
It was invite only and we were making 30
to 35k a month cuz we were maxing it out
during like the 2021 era for a couple
months before we had that realization
that, hey, you can't build a business
off of just ad revenue. Um, what are
some ways that you think creators should
be looking to monetize? Are you a fan of
going out and trying to get
sponsorships? Are you a fan of
affiliate? Like, what are some to that
beginning entrepreneur before they build
the media company, they build that big
thing for their audience? They don't
have hundreds of thousands of followers
yet to monetize. What are some ways,
some actionable ways that you think
people should monetize when they're when
they're kind of in those beginning
stages?
I think two things. The future of
private communities, which we're all
doing, right? Private communities and
owning your audience and giving them
literally whatever they want and what
you're able to give them. Serve the
younger you. Somebody who's two steps
behind you. I teach people how to make
viral videos cuz that is what I know
that like the back of my eyelids, right?
So whatever you're first becoming an
expert in something. Be really good.
Have some value to offer and build you
can build a private community. The
second prediction I can guess I guess
Sorry.
The second prediction I guess I would
have is really the future of UGC where
your followers don't matter, but you're
good at creating content, right? And
then so you're going to make this
content for a company.
AI is getting really good at making UGC.
Really, really good. And so unless
you're really great and doing something
AI can't really replicate, which is
maybe 10% of UGC creators are that good,
then I think there's going to be a huge
change up there. And I would advise
creators to go work to go become the
face of a company. I Viral is just full
of business owners and entrepreneurs who
are not the best fit to be the face of
the brand. And we know that brands have
to start acting more like content
creators and less like companies online.
And they need a face. They need somebody
to go do the man in the streets. They
need somebody to do the simple
repeatable thing and create the world,
right? So as a creator right now,
find something you're passionate about.
If it's sports betting, go make content
in sports betting and do high stakes
viral style videos in sports betting and
then do it as the face of a company
who's going to give you a lot of
leverage, who's going to give you the
money and the support to lift your
personal brand. Now you have leverage,
you can go do this for for multiple
companies, right? And that is going to
be a more solid foundation for you
financially than hoping to get a UGC
deal here or here or here. I would go be
the face of a company cuz all of these
companies that I'm talking to want to
bring a creator in house. So you're
going to make a lot more money right
away and you're not going to have to
work as hard. You're still going to work
really hard, but you're going to know
where your paycheck's coming from while
you're putting in the time to get the
skills.
I I want I wanted to ask um there's a
there's a there's a gentleman I would
consider him to be one of the greatest
like internet marketers of all of our
generation. I don't know. Have you heard
of Neil Patel? Yes. Neil Patel.
Incredible internet marketer. He's
worked with some of the biggest brands
in the world. And, you know, I saw on a
on a on a call that we were actually on
with him where he where he was asked,
"What do you see as the future of
content creation?" And he mentioned that
it was he thought it was the
globalization of content. Mhm. And
[snorts]
I I I think that, you know, to touch on
that for a second, you know, he's he's
true. Not only is it doing, you know,
subchannels and sublanguages and and
doing that, right? Mr. Beast has done
that. A lot of other big companies have
started to do that as well.
>> of foreign channels. Which which is very
smart. And even like, uh, another thing
that we've done and that I've noticed is
like when we went to go do interviews in
Dubai, we our content was being pushed
to millions of people in the Middle
East. And you just happened to an even
wider audience. It's like you you really
you don't you can't stop growing if
you're like going to do that. And so, a
big focus of me is like I want to go do
international content in a whole bunch
of countries. I'm curious for you, are
there any other things that you're
thinking about in the next 3 to 5 10
years? I mean, I know that you've
definitely touched on some of the points
about AI and the clipping. What do you
see next 5 to 10 years are going to be
huge opportunities for content creators,
things that are are going to change in
the creator economies and new
opportunities new opportunities that
will arise for people? Creators creating
their own products. Different than we've
seen with with Prime and and things like
that, but I think it's going to
the rise of like the micro creator in
these small subsets of communities in
private communities. Like you can
build something to sell even the
smallest niche and make fantastic money.
The most of the creators that we work
with are making what people would get uh
for a salary from their degree. We're
talking multiple six-figures and
seven-figures a year after just a few
years of getting really really good at
content creation. And they're picking
what they're naturally great at. Or
they're becoming the face of a company
and crushing it, right? So, I do think
you don't have to grow to millions and
millions of followers.
I think you need to focus on building
true authenticity and relationship with
a group of people. And pick something
with a larger total addressable market.
Why not? Why pick something so so small,
right? But what is the bigger version of
that small niche that you're an expert
in? How can you go a little bit bigger
so that you can have more opportunities?
Cuz what you sell your first year in
business is not going to be what you're
probably selling year four. You will
have to change and adapt with the times.
So, your relationship with that buying
audience is more important than
anything.
Boom.
Um, [snorts] and then I had another one,
but I think
I lost it. Globalization,
verticalization verticalization, and a
multi-channel strategies.
You know, like we have multi-channel
strategies now, but we haven't done it
necessarily for Ad Lee brand outside of
Ad Lee en Español. We have a We have a
creator competition reality show that
we're building right now. That's going
to be a different version of it. Then we
have Ad Lee Reels. We have Ad Lee long
form education Ad Lee. You know, and but
I think you're going to find if you are
again a multi-passionate person, you can
have these subsets of audiences that
when you don't have everything all in
one channel, which is going to confuse
the algorithm, it's going to confuse
you, and confused people don't buy
anything. I'm curious, do you think that
we're going to continue to kind of see
this trend of of these, you know, media
companies like, you know, you brought up
Hot Ones, I think it was a great example
where, you know, essentially what was
sold was they built the world around the
product, but that that audience is what
is is what they bought for 80 million.
You know, I don't know if you know
DeQuan was like the meme pages that sold
to Warner Bros for 84 million. Barstool
sold for hundreds of millions of
dollars. Do you think that there's going
to kind of continue to be a trend in,
you know, private equity companies or
these big, you know, media holding
companies continuing to buy a lot of
these creators, especially as you bring
up you know, you own the audience, you
have that private community, maybe
there's other businesses around. Do you
think that there's going to kind of
continue to be a trend in that space?
1,000%.
>> Why?
>> That's We're flying to Madrid tomorrow
to talk about it with one of the biggest
music and entertainment companies in the
world. It is a meeting of the mind of
entertainment executives and creators
coming together to have this very same
conversation. And they're like, "Listen,
we have a ton of money, literally
limitless budget. Where do we put it?
People with a lot of attention, right?"
And they're looking at brick and mortar.
They're building at hotel groups and
bridging entertainment with creators.
One of these hotels that Universal is
building in São Paulo, Brazil is backing
up to the soccer stadium, and all the
rooms on this side are box suites. And
they are filled with
items and limited drops and things from
Universal Music Group's artists and
things you can only get and experience
in this hotel. And then how can we
incentivize creators to "Hey, I'm Justin
Bieber. I'm doing a pop-up show here.
And how can we get uh 25,000 creators to
this hotel in the next 24 hours?" It is
going to be a very interesting mix of
data,
interests, interest-based marketing,
ad networks based on interest and
engagement algorithms to mobilize people
and not have the Biebers of the world
feel so far away. But I now feel like
I'm
attached to this artist. I have a piece
of I got in on this limited drop. I was
at this event and chosen. I feel closer
to Universal. I feel closer to Eminem,
to the artists that I love. And that is
the bridge that we're trying to build
where people feel a part of a world now
more than just looking up to this artist
in the sky the way that it's
historically been.
I think the bridge between artists and
fans is going to get closer and closer.
And so, if you're an artist or a
musician and you want to be above all
that, I think your time of relevancy is
very limited. Well, I think it's also
just a testament of how people are
buying and consuming nowadays. More than
anything, like traditional media is
dying. Like you look at like just like
the traditional news outlets, newspaper,
all of that. Like how people are
consuming content is completely
different. You know, people are getting
their news from Twitter and Instagram
now.
>> Mhm. People are buying products not
because the product itself has amazing
marketing, it's because they're you
they're using, you know, an influencer
creator that you love
to sell the product.
>> Mhm. With all the changes that have kind
of been, you know, made within media in
the past couple years, where do you see
that going in the future? Do you feel
like people are going to continue to buy
more from creators itself? Or where do
you kind of see the future of media kind
of going?
>> The future of media is shoppable media.
It is QR codes. It is Google Lens of
what you're seeing on the screen. Oh,
Miranda's wearing this thing. What is
that? Oh my gosh, I have a dupe of it or
I see where to get the real thing. And
we're going to be shopping with meta
glasses. We're going to be shopping all
of the time. And if my eyes if I'm
wearing meta glasses, my eyes gaze at
this thing a little too long, I'm like,
"Oh, James' sweater vest thing." And it
can measure my dopamine. Are you
kidding? Like we're going to get so
algorithmically honed in, it's it's
scary to think about where the future
is. Although my husband loves it. And
he's like, "I I everything on my
algorithm is exactly what I would wear.
I don't have to spend any time
shopping."
And it is it is wild, but as you measure
people's social engagements, the what
they linger a little bit too long on.
You guys know how scary the shoppable
algorithm is. Expect that to 10x.
We like to end these podcasts off by
asking our guest two questions. Um, and
I'll I'll start off, and then Jack,
you'll ask the second one. Ad Lee, if me
and you died tomorrow and you had one
more guiding principle to leave with the
younger generation, what would that be?
Mhm.
It is not how good you are today.
Sitting in this chair, laying in your
bed, wherever you're watching this video
right now, it is 100% how good you want
to be. You have to have a vision to see
past your current circumstances. And I
do think my mom taught me that early on.
In times where my circumstances have not
been great, to know and believe deeply
that that is temporary and that you have
to have vision. And make it up if you
have to, but tell yourself that your
vision is huge and who you are today has
no indication on who you're going to be
in the future if you change. And your
actions will align because you will
resonate. And that's where people I
think get law of attraction wrong. It is
first becoming
it, then you resonate it, and then you
attract it into your life. So, have
vision to see past your current
circumstances and know that it is not
about how good or those skills do not
disqualify you
that you desire. It is very very
possible for you.
And Ad Lee, if
today everything was all said and done,
what legacy would you want to leave
behind? How do you want to be
remembered?
I hope that when people either consume
my content or were around me, that I
made them feel more confident. Whether
it was confident in their silliness, in
their the things that make you unique,
that me and the way that I live my life
could be representation of what is
possible and everything that God can do
in a life when you don't take yourself
too seriously and you just trust the
path and stay committed to your own
authenticity and ability. And that I was
somebody who paved a path for them. I
love that. Incredible advice and just an
insanely insanely valuable conversation.
Ad Lee, thank you so much. Thank you,
friends.
>> We appreciate you. For everybody
watching right now, be sure to like and
subscribe for amazing content cuz every
week we're bringing you guys the best
and most fascinating business owners,
content creators, entrepreneurs in the
world to give you guys the secrets on
how to become successful in today's
world. We're going to put the link down
uh to Ad Lee's content and her channels
for you guys to go check her out. And as
well, guys, we're going to put a link
down in the description to become a
member of the number one most powerful
entrepreneur community and network in
the entire world, The School of Mentors.
We've got over 6,000 members in there.
They get to hop on live calls every week
with the millionaires and the
billionaires that we interview where you
ask your questions to them on how to
become successful and how to build your
first million-dollar business. So, we
can't wait to see you on the inside.
With that being said, we'll see you in
the next episode.
