You exited your company for $255
million.
I mean, when I tell you it felt like a
dream, like, it was so it was so crazy.
Like,
you're a stay-at-home mom. You're
cutting hair to make some money on the
side.
I don't think that I ever came at this
from like, oh, I want to make a bunch of
money. It was really more of like, what
do I need to do for like my soul?
At what point did you realize that this
small business that I started, I can
actually scale to multiple locations and
eventually an empire?
There was so much press, there was so
much excitement, everybody wanted a dry
bar. So, what we think we were fearful
of is that we had so many people on our
tail.
What do you mean by people on your tail?
Copycats.
Copycats.
Tons of copycats.
You were a shark on Shark Tank.
Yes.
When you were on there, what did you
look for as an investor when you were
wanting to invest in the companies?
Shark Tank was an interesting thing
because
if you've got one guiding principle that
you could leave with the younger
generation, what would that be?
What's going on everyone and welcome
back to the School of Hard Knocks
podcast. I'm James. I'm here with Jack
and Josh. And we've got an incredible
guest for you guys today. We're out in
Austin, Texas right now with the woman
who built one of the most influential
and iconic beauty brands of all time.
She turned a single blowout bar into
what, a $200 million exit that you ever
million. Yeah.
255 million. We're here with Ali Webb
out in Austin, Texas. Thank you for
being with us today.
Thanks for having me. Love being with
you guys.
We're super happy to have you here. But
I want to get things started off by
going back to this exact moment, right?
You're uh a stay-at-home mom. You're
cutting hair to make some money on the
side. What was that moment when you kind
of had that, you know, come to Jesus
moment where you're like, I want to go
allin. I want to go out and build an
empire and something that's going to
forever last. I mean, for the people
that don't know, you've got, you know,
your stores, your brickandmortar
business that's now in Saudi Arabia, all
over the world now. What was that
moment? Well, I wasn't cutting hair. I
was blow-drying hair on the side.
Although, I did cut hair in salons for
many years. And you know it's it's funny
when you it's when you talk about it in
retrospect like that it's like oh I must
have had this grand plan and this big
idea like for world domination which I
didn't you know it was like which I
think is just an important thing to
point out you know especially I would
imagine you guys hear this all the time
when you talk to people but it's like I
think the if you look at all the these
successful businesses the best ideas
really start from you know passion and
personal necessity and all of those
things and that was really the case for
me. I mean, you know, it's it's like
it's not a big grandiose story. Like, I
was a stay-at-home mom and I thought I
wanted to be a stay-at-home mom and and
after about 5 years of being a stay at
home mom with my boys and I mean I I
love my kids more than anything, but I
was like, I just I have to do something
for myself. I felt so like I wasn't like
utilizing my brain in the way I wanted
to enough and I was just like kind of
starving for something else. And um and
so because I had done hair for so many
years, I started a mobile blowout
business in LA, which is like basically
me driving around town with a duffel bag
full of brushes and blow dryers and and
then, you know, blowd drying women's
hair. I think the thing that's
interesting is that I, you know, I don't
I don't think that I ever came at this
from like, oh, I want to make a bunch of
money. I was just, it was really more of
like, what do I need to do for like my
soul at this point? because I was, you
know, I loved my kids and I mean I ended
up getting divorced from their dad and
that's probably a piece of it that I
just was like kind of searching and
missing something and but I was very
fulfilled with my kids until I was like
wait I got to go do something for myself
and I you know I wanted to get this
business up and off the ground quickly.
So I was only charging 40 bucks to go to
women's homes which is like incredibly
cheap. I mean this was like 16 17 years
ago and even then it was incredibly
cheap. you know, it was like you
couldn't get a blowout at your house for
less than 150 or 200 bucks, you know,
and and I just wasn't thinking about the
money piece of it. I was thinking more
about the mental like I really need to
do something for myself. And so that
business is is really what like was the
launch pad or the springboard for for
Dry Bar. I didn't know it at the time.
So I didn't set out to like, oh, I'm
going to start this mobile blowout
business and I'm going to turn it into a
brick and mortar and I'm going to turn
it, you know, into this big thing. That
wasn't I wasn't thinking that way, you I
was just like, I want to do something
that feels really good to me. And it
did, you know, it really scratched that
itch for me at the time of like, I've
got to do something for myself,
something that's fulfilling to me. And
and I got really busy really fast. And
and then very quickly came to like a
crossroads of how do I expand this
thing? Like I'm on to something, you
know, and that's when I went to my
brother Michael, who's who's my business
partner, and in all my endeavors. And I
was like, you know, I have too many
clients and not enough of me. I didn't
want to expand with other stylists. So I
was like, I think I should turn this
into a brick and mortar. And you know,
it was such a like, you know, flyer of
an idea cuz nobody had done it. You
know, it was like there were hair salons
that did blowouts, but they, you know,
they they historically, again, charged a
very high price because hair stylists
didn't want to be doing just blowouts
because that hour of their time could be
spent doing cut or color, which was far
more lucrative than doing a blowout,
even though that was expensive, too,
which is why they made it expensive
because they wanted that time to be, you
know, really they could cash in more on
that time. And so I it was just like I
turned everything on its head kind of
like unknowingly, you know, I was just
like as as a as a client and and from my
personal perspective, I was like I
always dreamt of a place like Dry Bar
when I was a kid because I have
naturally curly hair and which now I've
embraced and started a whole other
company based on that. But that was, you
know, that was like always my thing and
and I couldn't believe that nobody had
ever come up with this idea. So, long
story long, you know, I I was like, I
think I should open a brick and mortar
and my brother helped me finance it and
get it off the ground. And, you know, it
just it took off beyond our wildest
dreams and we were like, holy [ __ ]
we're really on to something here.
Yeah. Elon Musk has this quote he calls
entrepreneurship, it's like eating glass
and staring into the abyss. Yeah. And it
seems like it's like, like you said,
there wasn't this grandiose plan to try
to figure it out. It's really that
staring into the abyss part of like I
don't know what this necessarily looks
like down the road, but I'm just going
to take the most.
And I think that that's the thing about
being an entrepreneur is like you have
to you have to have comfort with staring
down the abyss. You just don't know
what's coming and you have to be like
okay with not knowing what's coming.
Which is really an interesting point
because I'm really not okay with that in
any other area of my life as I'm
thinking through that. But but being an
entrepreneur I'm like let's just go for
it. like, you know, it's like, let's
just see what happens. And that was
really it. I mean, I I remember people
being like,
you know, I don't I don't think the the
concept of a blowd dry bar was, you
know, so I cannot tell you how many
women came up to me like, I had this
idea. I didn't know how to execute it.
Which is also part of like,
you know, being an entrepreneur, that
risk and that like you're like, [ __ ] it.
I'm just going to try it. And that's
really how I was and that's how I'm like
no no no no fear around that. You know
maybe I just was like no one's going to
die. We could all lose some money. Okay.
And if we do then we'll go figure
something else out. And so I just didn't
have that. And I think you have to have
that like I don't really care if not
that I don't care but if it fails it
fails and we just go figure out
something else. Like for me I just don't
have any any fear around that. other
areas of my life I have a lot of fear
which is a really interesting thing to
ponder you know
why do you why do you think that is
I don't know I just unlocked something
Jack
[ __ ] I got to call my therapist now and
be like huh because I'm so like you know
I'm just so like you know I don't I
don't have any fear of starting a
company you know it's it to me it's like
and it's interesting because I talk to
so many entrepreneurs and I mentor so
many entrepreneurs and I'm like you you
know just go and do it and just you know
and they're like ah what if it doesn't
work and what if I lose I'm like so
what okay what if it does work you know
and and really statistically most don't
right so there so there should be that
fear
I I love that you brought up how you
know everybody was saying oh I had this
idea but they didn't take the action
like you
right well that's that's the thing and
and I remember those conversations like
they were yesterday and I remember being
like why are people saying that to me
you know I'm like I and then I was like
is ignorance bliss like we were also at
the tail end of a recession It was 2009
and I think and people were like I don't
know how you're going to make this
business work cuz we were charging $35
and so you know and as not like for a
blowout
for a blowout. Yeah. So you know as like
not a very strong math person I was like
huh how many blowouts do we have to do
in a day to make this business work? I
had honestly I had no idea. And luckily
my brother was like starting to run some
numbers and it you know and we thought
you know what what we ultimately came up
with was like if we were doing
I mean I kid you not probably 30 to 40
blowouts a day whatever the math is on
that it's not very much
over how many locations
just one just one just Brentwood the one
shop how many blowouts do we have to do
there's eight chairs how many can we do
in I mean we could do close to a hundred
if we were like at full capacity and
stuff which we weren't for so long um
and and I didn't know that I was going
to be sitting in that first chair doing
blowouts too, which I had to because it
was just so busy. But I mean, 30 to 40
blowouts was like what we were hoping to
reach, which, you know, which is funny
because after I don't know, a week, we
were like, "Holy shit." Like, we're
doing 70 to 80 blowouts a day, which was
well past what we thought we were going
to do and prepared for. Like, we didn't
have enough stylists. It was just like a
total [ __ ] show in the beginning, but it
was intoxicating and amazing. But that's
when we were like, "Oh my god, we're on
to something." Like, "This is this is
going to be a thing." Like, you know,
women really want this. And and I think,
you know, from an execution standpoint,
our my brother and I, our parents had,
you know, clothing stores when they were
growing up. So, we kind of watched how
they did it. And, you know, we we
understood the importance of customer
service. We had this amazing architect
that my brother knew that had built, you
know, million-dollar homes and hotels.
and he he really helped us like map out
what it was going to look and feel like.
He was the first person who ever taught
me the phrase surprise and delight,
which was more from an architectural
standpoint of like you you know when you
walk in Dry Bar, you're kind of like
assaulted with all this like the music
and the decor and everything. And then
you walk into the shampoo room and it's
a complet there's a shift but you're
like, "Oh, this is so cute." And then
you walk in the bathroom and the
bathroom's really cute, which was smart
because we knew women were going to take
pictures of themselves in the bathroom,
which they did, you know. But it was
just all of these things that really
came together for us that
you know back to thinking about
execution like what's what's interesting
is like when you look at the landscape
of the copycats and there were so many I
mean we had so many cease and desist
letters out there because so many people
were knocking us off. The thing about it
when which was scary at first but then
it was like these guys aren't they don't
even know what they're doing. you know,
it's a very opportunistic thing like,
oh, let's hire some stylists and call it
a blowd dry bar, which, you know, my
experience, our collective experience,
like there were so many, you know,
thousands of details that went into dry
bar being dry bar that made it very hard
to duplicate and people just didn't
realize that,
right? You know, what did you learn
about pricing? because I I feel like
this is something that not a lot of
entrepreneurs or business owners talk
about and I would imagine that you
didn't keep those blowout prices at $35
forever.
I tried to I tried to keep it keep it at
35 as long as possible because we had we
were really we had captured this like
affordable luxury and also again coming
out of a recession when women were
pulling back on getting cuts in color
which was you know $300 to $500. I mean,
in LA, I mean, it's probably I mean,
that's probably about right still. But
they were they were not doing that as
much. There's like an old thing about
like, you know, women will always buy
lipstick in a recession because it's
cheap and easy and it's a quick pickme
up, you know, and and I think the fact
that we were $35 kind of was that same
kind of thinking that like, oh, you
know, and and that's really what I
noticed is that women were were doing
less color. you know, it was like a
great blowout kind of camouflage the
fact that you need color or a haircut
because like now your hair looks
amazing. And so at $35, you know, women
were coming in in droves. And I liked
like hanging my hat on that affordable
luxury and like we're the thing about
Dry Bar, as you know, is like it looks
and feels really high-end, and that was
a very very strategic decision, but the
price point isn't there. And and that
you would expect when you walk into a
place that looks like that, that feels
like that, like you're treated like
that. You know, I always I think that
personally like I lived in New York City
and LA most of my adult life and I just
I I really remember the feeling of
walking into a fancy like salon and just
feeling really insecure cuz I didn't
have the right bag or I didn't you know
what I mean? And I was like I don't ever
want that experience. I want this to
feel very mom and pop, but then the
juxtaposition of the fact that it feels
really high-end and expensive, but it's
not, you know, and so I think that that
was kind of the the se part of the
secret sauce for us is like we we really
made this affordable and available to to
a lot of women, but you know, then we
had our high users like women who were
like in, you know, heavy users, they
were in like two, three times a week,
whereas like but most women would come
in like maybe once every two weeks,
maybe once a month, but then, you know,
the business sustain ained itself by
those, you know, women we loved who were
in they weren't washing their own hair
anymore. You know,
something uh something a lot of
entrepreneurs get stuck on is that I
need to provide multiple services. I
need to have the cut and color. I need
to do the nails. I need to have a bunch
of services that I can provide to the
customer. And you went all in on one
service just going through blowouts.
Yeah.
Why? Like did you ever have that
temptation to offer multiple services?
And why did you ultimately decide not to
do so? Well, I didn't have the
temptation to do it because I knew just
from the jump like running this business
and finding stylists to do blowouts like
that was so challenging in and of
itself. And I always felt like I wanted
like we were known for one thing and we
and I wanted us to be the best at it and
I knew how hard that was to execute that
which was incredibly hard. um for a
million reasons. But our investors, you
know, as we started raising money, our
investors were like, "Oh, you have this
captive audience of, you know, at that
point when we started raising, I think
we had maybe six or seven stores and
they were like, "Holy [ __ ] you have a
100 women give or take coming in each
store per day. Like, you could sell them
a lot of things. Have you thought about
doing manices? Have you thought about
doing lashes or makeup or whatever?"
You know, I think that it was more of
like I don't think I would be good at
that. Like I think I I was like I I
don't know those things the way I know
hair. Like I knew I could walk into a
dry bar at any time and look and see
every woman and I could see who wasn't
liking her blowout. you know, I would
just I could read her and be like and
you and I would always make it a point
to go over and be like, you know, how
are you blah blah and then try to like
see like if she's annoyed because she's
frustrated, she doesn't like the way her
hair is coming out or whatever she
doesn't like about the experience, you
know, and so like that that piece of it
was so important. And so in my mind, I
was like, if we kind of convolute this
and add all these other services, we're
going to go from being really great and
the best at one thing to being like
okay, even good at at a lot of things,
you know? and I just I didn't want to do
it. And and and I think that the
pendulum will swing and I think we'll
start to see
that again where it's like cuz I get it
from a convenience standpoint. I when
women would ask me that like I wish I
could be getting a manicure right now.
It'd be so time effective. I'm like yeah
I get it. I want that too. But I just I
can't sacrifice the quality of what
we're doing, you know? And it's kind of
like the In-N-Out Burger model. I mean,
it's a it's a lofty comparison, but it's
like they you know, it's like you can't
go buy a chicken sandwich at In-N-Out
Burger. You just can't, you know,
the the riches are in the niches.
Yeah. Exactly. Wow. I never heard that.
But that but you know, it's like I
remember feeling we used to talk about
that a lot. It's like you just can't and
you just this is what you get and but
it's got to be spectacular and amazing
and that and there was so much to pull
off with making that successful that
anytime an investor was like wanting us
to do that I was like we're definitely
not. And if you're not on board with
that, you're not the right partner.
You said you didn't start off with a
grandio plan. You're just like, "Hey, I
just can't keep doing this myself."
Yeah.
So, you start the first location. At
what point were you did you realize that
this small business that I started, I
can actually scale to multiple locations
and eventually an empire.
Well, I mean, the demand was crazy. I
mean, that's the whole thing about Dry
Bar was like, I mean, when I tell you it
felt like a dream, like it it was so it
was so crazy. Like, and having worked in
hair salons, it's like, you know, it
takes a while as a stylist to build a
book and when a hair salon opens, it
takes it takes time for like everybody
in the neighborhood to know about it.
It's like a kind of a general like a a
slow build or ramp. But with Dry Bar, it
was such a, you know, we we hit
everything from the price point to the
to the experience, the way it looked and
felt and, you know, all of that that,
you know, women were just coming out in
droves. And so we knew we were very
quickly like we are sitting on a huge
opportunity and there's there's so much
demand for this, you know, and we were
always chasing supply. You know, it was
like getting enough hair stylists in the
shop to do the blowouts and then making
sure that the stylists were up to par
and that I mean that would forever
become the biggest thing that especially
for me sitting in board, you know, fast
forward to like six, seven years later,
sitting in, you know, boardrooms talking
to the board about, you know, we we
could be maximizing the business more.
I'm like, but we got to get more
stylists. And I'm like, you know, and
it's like we have stylists who come to
us who just weren't good enough at when
they came to us. like we had we we
instituted like a a major training
program so I could get stylists ready
and and there was always this healthy
rub between like me and my styling team
and like the managers of shops because
obviously the more blowouts we do the
more money comes in the more you know
you know the top line you know really
grows but I was like I was so nervous
always about like if we just allow
stylists on the floor that aren't ready
that aren't giving an amazing blowout
it's back to that like being the best at
one thing you know so we that it was
just we never we just never had enough
stylists and we had probably like 5,000
stylists, you know, I mean at at the
peak of of the brand and so it was like
it was it was it luckily for us it was a
good problem to have. There was so much
demand and so many women wanted a dry
bar in in their city and that was also
kind of what led to me wanting to start
a product division which was like okay
and I wrote my first book it was called
the dry bar guide to good hair for all.
It was a very like tutorial book of like
how do you blow up bangs? Like how do
you get all the different styles because
I was like well you don't have a dry bar
near you which most people didn't like
you can buy the products and tools that
we're using in our shops and here's a
book on how to do it. So we capitalized
on that knowing that women wanted it you
know so it was we were kind of always
trying to keep up with the demand. So we
just we couldn't open source fast enough
really. Was was that the biggest
challenge while you were scaling the the
team thing like bringing when you
stylist would come to you and and they
just didn't meet the par when you were
scaling to so many locations making sure
the quality of the team at all these
locations was that your biggest
challenge that you guys had?
Yeah, it really was. I mean there was
that that really was one of the biggest
by far the biggest challenge was like
getting enough stylists and it's like
you know like other if you like now
running messy right it's like I can we
can get as much pro I mean within reason
we can get like the ingredients to make
product and we can just keep making it
like there's no there's no human element
there stylists you know there was like
getting stylists and and it's also a
labor intensive job so even even
stylists that we got you know it's like
they only work a certain amount of hours
was just, you know, was really tiring
for them. So, it was just constantly
trying to figure that out. I mean, at
one point, I wanted to open a school,
you know, and start just training them
ourselves. There was so much bureaucracy
and red tape with that that we never and
I we didn't have the bandwidth to do it.
But, you know,
you got your initial capital from your
brother
and you kind of had a deal where I'm
going to be the one working putting this
thing together and you're going to
inject some capital in the business.
Yeah. And I recently just interviewed,
you know, a fellow Shark Tank member,
uh, Robert Hersec, out in Beverly Hills.
Oh, I saw that one.
And and he he told me that he got a
piece of advice from the founder of Avis
Rental Car, which and I can't remember
the exact quote, but it was so good. And
he was talking about how like one of
your greatest things that you can do as
a business owner is like go get like an
equity partner as opposed to like
initially just raising a bunch of money.
And so,
but you kind of did both, right? because
like you said, I think you got to six or
seven locations and then you decided to
go raise some private equity money. Um
what is your perspective on raising
capital now looking back? Right? Because
there's a big risk as a business owner
that if you take on a lot of money and
you're giving a lot of control over to
other people when you're the ideal
decision maker, what is your perspective
on it?
Well, not only control like now having
been on the other side of sold a
company. I mean, you know, I don't have
really any regrets, but I would say I
wish I had had more equity when I sold
my company. And I think that that's like
that was, you know, my brother and I had
a lot of conversations early on about
like, you know, owning having a small
piece of a big pie or owning a big piece
of small pie. He loved to to talk about
that. I mean, we talked about it at
Nauseium because
it is this thing and you know, and I
look at companies like, "Have you
interviewed Sarah Blakeley?"
No, I need to though.
Yeah. Spanx, right?
Yeah, Spanx. But she but she didn't take
I don't know I don't know exact on her I
believe she didn't take any capital for
a long long time only recently I think
cuz she she she take she I I don't even
think she sold the whole thing. I I I
think it was a majority, but anyways, I
remember looking at her business being
like, gosh, it's amazing, but it's a
different path, you know, and she, you
know, that company and again, I I I
don't I don't know enough about it, but
from what I've what I what I think I
know is that she just, you know, she
built it from the ground up. I and I
have other friends who've built
companies like that that they're just
they're kind of in it for the long haul
and they're not looking to sell anytime
soon. And and not that I was dying to
sell the company, but we what what what
we think we were fearful of, which was
true, is that, you know, we had so many
people on our tail and that if we didn't
continue to like open more and more
stores, at least that's what we thought.
What do you mean by people on your tail?
Copycats.
Copycats.
Tons of copycats. Tons of other blow. I
mean, you know, there was it's it's like
the double-edged sword. There was so
much press. There was so much
excitement. Everybody wanted a dry bar.
So we were like we got to go and we got
to do this and the only way to do that
quickly was to raise capital.
So momentum was very important.
Very important. And it you know and and
it was like we could have chose to do it
organically. It would have taken twice
as long. I mean we were we were in it
for 10 years. It would have taken and
and not only would it have taken a twice
long somebody else would have like you
know outpaced us bec because there they
would have somebody else would have been
and and we were even scared of somebody
else being well more wellunded to go and
open more. I I believe that you know we
had such an unbelievable like secret
sauce between my brother who understood
the business side, my ex-husband who was
the creative genius, I understood this
business really well. It would have been
very hard and it was hard and and the
copycats in my humble opinion never were
able to like measure up to us but they
sure tried and so if you know I remember
God I haven't thought about this stuff
in so long but I remember my brother and
I having conversations and him being
like you know somebody with really deep
pockets could come along and have the
resources to open stores much faster
than us which we were opening very fast
but somebody else could have done it.
So, we kind of felt like if we were
going to really go for this, we had to
raise money. And and and looking back,
like
I don't again I don't regret it because
it got us, you know, 10 years and it
sounds like a long time went goes by
very very fast. And so, you know, we
would never have gotten to where we got
to if we hadn't raised money. I mean,
those stores initially, I think they
were half a million dollars to build.
You know, but when it was all said and
done, I think it was a million dollars
to build those stores. So you can
imagine like that's a lot of capital. I
mean our first raise was 26 million
which we were like
you know I didn't want to raise 20 no
Michael didn't want to raise 26 million
either. We were we were hoping to raise
like 10 you know and and then or 15 and
tops and then they you know private
equity wants to put in more and
and so they did and it was actually the
right decision because like some of that
money was earmarked for a product but
but yeah it's just you know it's uh it's
like it's it's kind of like what do you
want? you know, do you want to be in
this for 20 years or do you want to, you
know, be in this for I mean, I feel like
we used to always say we'll sell in
three to five years, you know, and it's
like year seven and we're like, well,
here we are, you know.
Take real quick, take us back cuz when I
first interviewed you, I had asked you
how you felt about copycats and I know
that the three of us, we think of
copycats as we we want to crush them.
Yeah.
You I remember correctly that you would
drive by to some of these people and and
you you would
like dark glasses and like
you would go in there and see what
they're doing. Can you can you kind of
talk us through your strategy about how
you, your team, your brother, like were
just staying ahead of the competition
cuz the one of the biggest business
rivalries that
always fascinated me was like the whole
Coke and Pepsi thing about how one would
move and then the other one would move
and it was that constant kind of thing.
Yeah.
What was your, you know, thought process
on dealing with that?
Well, I was initially very scared. I
mean, I would I was I was we were
tracking what everybody was doing. What
I think we came to learn was that nobody
was doing it as well as us and nobody
understood how much it took and like the
like I said like the millions of details
that went into what the whole overall
experience was dry. Nobody really could
captivate or capture that. And and I
remember it was like it was it was more
of a drip to learn that you know cuz I
was I mean I I would lose sleep over it
for sure cuz I and not only that I was
so giddy and excited about this
business. So if you came in and talk to
talk you were a client and there's a
story here you know who came in I would
talk to everybody about what we did how
we did it like I was not very guarded
with it because I was so proud of it and
wanted to talk about it all the time and
and I had these beautiful conversations
with so many clients. One woman went and
opened basically, you know, took my
everything I told her and went and
opened like an location in somewhere
like outside of San Francisco and then
wrote me an email and said, "Hey, you
were really gracious and talked to me
for so long about your business and I
just kind of needed to clear her
conscious and say, "Hey, I actually went
and did my own thing." And she kind of
felt bad about it and I was so mad. I
mean, I wish I could find that email
because I was like I was so mad and I
but I was, you know, and that was so
early on. And then, you know, and then
what I realized about her business and
all the other ones was they just didn't
have the thing that we had that made us
so special. And then I started to hear
from clients. You know, clients would be
like, "Oh, I couldn't get into Dry Bar,"
which was always a huge problem, too.
So, I went to the copycat down the
street. This is how they would say it to
me. I went to the copycat. They didn't
even say the name. And yeah, it just
wasn't that great. I don't know why they
didn't love my hair. And like I knew
why. I because I would go and study it
and be like, "The lighting's wrong. The
music's wrong. They're probably not
training their stylist well." Like it
was a laundry list of things I could go
down and say, "I know why you didn't
like that experience." You know, we
worked so hard to create that
experience. So slowly but surely that
kind of you know I that ex that like
feeling of being angry and frustrated
very quickly turned into like you just
don't you just you're aren't going to be
able to execute as well as we are. And
then and then it started to like I
started to chill out and then I was like
then I actually started to flip and be
like oh I actually think the copycats
are good because they are they were
generally raising awareness in the
market for blowouts because even though
LA and New York were like they got it
Dallas like they they got it. When we as
we started to open in other cities
across the US it was like there was a
little bit of a hurdle of like women who
hadn't heard of a blowout. Like I I so
many women would say to me like what's a
blowout, you know? And so there was a
behavior change that was important that
needed to happen and and other copycats
who who would get to market before us,
which always kind of would drive me
crazy initially, but then we they would
be they would get to market and you know
and and and be an option and then Dry
Bar would come to town and they'd be
like, "Oh, this is so much better." you
know, so they were like, you know, kind
of greasing the wheels for us to come in
and like really show them how it's done.
And so, you know, my my relationship to
copycats really shifted over the years.
And I was like, it's great. I didn't
like when they would call themselves Dry
Bar or they'd be like Sally's Dry Bar or
they'd have I kid you not, people would
like put pictures of me and like our
like on their website and I was like,
what you you can't do that. You know,
there was some weird stuff that happened
when people were
We had interviewed uh Steve Madden in
New York and I guess like when we kind
of finished up shooting the interview,
uh I guess a woman walked by and he
stops her on the street and he asks her,
"Hey, what are your shoes? Like tell me
about them." And just hearing you talk
about like even just like observing like
what the copycats were doing and the
like even every little detail like the
lighting, the music, like I feel like
that that is what ultimately made your
company successful is like how detail-
oriented your process was for your
customer.
Yeah. Yeah. It really I mean it is so
true and it's so shocking literally
shocking to me how many businesses and
I'm sure you guys feel this too. You
walk in and you're like,
we talked about that on when you
interviewed me. I'm like, no, why? Why?
Why are you not like people are giving
you their hard-earned money? That's how
I always thought about it. And and I if
I'm if I have the responsibility of
taking your money for some giving you is
something in return. I want to make it
the best I can make it and and have
thought of everything I can think of,
you know, and and I am always shocked
when people when I walk into most places
that it's just there's so many details
they're leaving. And you know the
difference when you walk into some place
that's like buttoned up. You're like,
"Somebody really gives a [ __ ] Somebody
really cares." And then there's just a
completely different thing to it that
you know that that most business owners
miss. I feel like maybe it's getting
better, but I don't know. I still walk
in places and I'm so annoyed about so
many things and I'm like, "This could be
so much better. Why are you not paying
attention to the details?" So to your
point, I think those are, you know, the
businesses and the companies that rise
to the top because they are paying such
such important such close, you know,
detail to those those little things. And
it's just, you know, and I think that
like either you have that or you don't
or, you know, I mean, I guess you can go
and learn that and hopefully someone
listening to this podcast will be like,
am I really paying attention to my
business? Chances are they're not, you
know, and it's easy to like, you know,
it's like we just want to like kick back
and be like, I've got a successful
company. And then and and that's the
thing, too. It's like you can have this
great idea and this great thing, but
then it's not being executed well or the
shop or the whatever is dirty or the
music's bad or the c the people working
there don't want to be there. Like
there's so many little things and it's
it's always such a big opportunity. I
know none of us love copycats, but a
perspective that I love is
although we may not like them, you like
you should start to get worried when
they stop copying because clearly you
have something that works, right? People
that are interested and want to, you
know, continue to do more of
when you're scaling so aggressively. You
have, you know, you're like, "Hey, I
need more investors. We need more
capital." Why did you ultimately decide
to just keep doing all the fr like all
the locations yourself instead of like
doing franchising for example?
Well, we did it. We we kind of
vacasillated back and forth between
that. you know, the LA shops, which were
the initial ones were were all company
owned. And then when we were trying to
open in Dallas and and you know, it was
like kind of always this puzzle of like
how much capital do we have to open our
own stores and then we can grow the
brand if we you know, allow franchises
like in Dallas and Arizona is franchise
and other places we're franchise because
now we're we're kind of spreading the
word but but not not on our dime. But
then it's like then you have a lot of
other problems with like franchises who
are you know entrepreneurs in their own
right and so they have their own ideas
and they want to do things and you're
like well you know the the way I always
thought about it is like there's a lot
of ways to do things right there's one
way that we do it and that's what we
want from our franchises and not
everybody subscribed to that. So it was
kind, you know, we kind of went back and
forth and and honestly it was very hard
because you're you're running
essentially two businesses like you
have, you know, to run a franchise
conglomerate requires a lot of a lot of
different things than running a
corporate owned company, you know, and
honestly I can make the argument that
both are good and both are bad, you
know. It kind of just depends on what
what you want, you know, but it was it
was always a real challenge for us
figuring out how to you know, maneuver
in that what we wanted to do. But I at
the end of the day, I mean, of the 150
stores when we sold, I would say
probably 70ish were company owned and
the rest were franchise. But also, we
would franchise like markets that we
weren't going to get to, like
Louisville, Kentucky, like it was
actually a great store, but it's not our
it wasn't ours, you know, and I was
like, I we could let Louisville go like
let you know or or a store was going to
have like oneoff as opposed to like LA
that had like 25 stores and we really
wanted to be close to that. it was also
in my backyard, you know. So, there was
a lot of decisions, a lot of factors
that went into that decision.
Are there are there challenges of
scaling to different locations of the
country and like cuz like what may work
in LA may not work in Kentucky, for
example. So, how do you go about doing
that market research of what may work
here may not work here and changing that
up?
Yeah. Well, it's a good question
because, you know, one that we kind of
had to learn the hard way because in LA
cuz I I lived in I've lived in LA for 25
years. Like I knew
the where to be. I knew where women I
just knew naturally behavior of women.
When we you open a place like Kentucky,
I don't know anything about it. So, we
we really needed to lean on not only
real estate agents, but like get as many
like find out who the women like what
their how their how they moved through
their lives in their neighborhood and
and really actually I think the best
example of that was when we were opening
a store in Long Island, New York. And I
knew the city, but I didn't know Long
Island very well. And we were kind of
going back and forth between two
shopping centers. And what we ended up
opening in the shopping center that was
the wrong one because and you wouldn't
know it as an outsider. Turns out that
what again we learned the hard way was
like where that shopping center was
located was just harder to like
physically get to. The parking was
harder. Like it just women just
naturally went to the other one because
of the way it was located and and
situated, whatever. And it really like
hurt the bit. Like we couldn't we it was
really hard to grow that shop because it
was a pain for women to get to. And you
know, right across the street, so you'd
think like that doesn't matter, but it
all really matters. And that was the
other thing. It was like we were always
putting dry bars next to like kind of
common use. So we wanted there to be
like a nail salon perhaps, like a
grocery store, like daily use things
that women would would do, you know, a
workout, whatever it was. Like in that
shopping center, you know, Dry Bar would
kind of round it out. And so that was
important too. you know, we didn't we
always wanted to be like in that versus
like, you know, you're just going to a
like a destination for driver.
When you were bringing on investors, one
of the things that you want to have is
like not all money is good money.
And are were you looking for investors
that had that experience of like
actually franchising a business and
bringing out that business to different
markets or what were some of the things
you were looking from like the investors
to help scale that and make that happen?
Yeah, it's such an important point. I
mean, you know, it's like we always
said, we're not going to just take a
check from anyone. And it's like a
marriage, right? Like you are you are
working very closely with these people
and if they don't share your vision, if
they don't get what you're doing and you
know, kind of in lock step with what
you're trying to build is a it can be a
disaster. I mean and and and so we we
were really and that was something that
when we were going through a formal
process and you know kind of back to
what we were saying before about
multi-use like more services a lot of
the investors that we met with initially
were like hey have you guys thought
about doing this this and we'd be like
no we want to keep it really simple and
you just kind of knew that they weren't
aligned with that and I was like we're
not no we're not doing that this is not
going to ultimately be the right partner
you know so we were very discerning
about who we would take money from for
that very reason. And we actually almost
did a deal and then at the 11th hour
like our our lawyer Jeff, who's a dear
friend of ours and was the uh the Dallas
owner, him and his wife, you know, wrote
us like a Jerry Maguire letter. Do you
guys know that movie? Are you okay?
I've I've I've heard of the movie. I
haven't seen it.
You Oh, you have to see it. You haven't
se Have you seen it? Oh my god. You have
to see it. It's like it's so good. And
it's like there's a scene where that
he's like, "Show me the money." Like you
would love it.
Isn't that Tom Kurs?
Yeah. Do you know who that is? Just
kidding. You guys just interviewed him,
didn't you? Um,
oh, but it's so good. No, I totally lost
my train of thought. Um, why did I bring
Jeff Dallas?
Oh, yes. Thank you. So, he Oh, yes. He
wrote us what we refer to as the Jerry
Maguire uh email because he was like,
don't do this deal. Like, don't do which
which is like you got to see the movie.
Yeah. Um, but this like, you know, 11th
hour like this is not the right guy.
These are not the right guys. This is
not the right thing. And so we pulled
out of the deal which was like oh I
remember that so well because you know
you've heard deal fatigue like that is a
real
time kills all deals.
Yes. Oh my gosh. So we had been we had
been in in you know negotiations with
these guys for so long and then to have
to start the whole process over was like
you got to be [ __ ] kidding me. But it
was you know better than than making the
deal. And then we ended up with a really
great partner in in Castana which is now
Stride.
And then and then our that was like our
the 26 million was our first big trunch
and then we raised with um another uh
private equity firm called work and they
they owned or they were I don't think
they outright owned it but Orange Theory
was one of their their clients and then
you know they had done such a great job
with scale so they really understood the
franchise piece of it so we were you
know pretty wellrounded. Talk to me
about how when you were in some of these
boardrooms and you've got heavy hitters
all around, right? These big private
equity guys that are writing a lot of
money. I remember you talking to me
about how in our first interview about
it was ultimately kind of your brother
that I think told you it's like don't be
afraid to run your mouth. Like this is
your company. You know this more than
them. And it reminds me, you know, when
I interviewed Kendra Scott and one of
the things that she talked about how she
got a piece of advice from her father
that was don't be afraid of the men in
suits
and I'm sure that you've seen it um
maybe you experienced it yourself and a
lot of other you know very prominent
successful women in business. They kind
of go in there and they kind of
maybe step back. What did you learn
about yourself and and any advice you
could pass on to somebody maybe in a
similar situation?
Well, and I think that you know I also
grew up in an era where it was you know
there
there weren't other female
entrepreneurs, you know, and so
everything was run by the man and so
there was this like kind of natural
society like you know intimidation or
you know like men run businesses and you
know and we've now you know like Kendra
Scott and other you know really
successful other female entrepreneurs
we've we're shifting that but yeah I
think that I was just naturally
intimidated And
and it really was my brother who was
like like you know like you're referring
to like I would I would text him under
the table in meetings and and my
question and he would be like you should
ask that and and he really so he really
gave me my sea legs and my confidence to
be like speak up you know and and even
even Steve Berg who was uh you know our
our our main guy at Castan and he he he
was you know he was he he did say to me
like he was like you this was your idea.
We're all here because of you. Like you
you you need to like own that and step
into that, you know, and which is which
is really an important subject because,
you know, I think over the last however
many years we've seen like, you know, so
much, you know, there's there's like the
Me Too movement and, you know, men have
really been through it in that, you
know, regard. And and I think there are
definitely some bad men out there. I
think there's some bad women out there.
And it's like I've had really supportive
men. I've been really lucky to have
really supportive men who are very like
pushing me to be, you know, strong and
better and and I was really lucky. Even
our our CEO John Hefner also another
great man who was you know very
respectful to me and very you know
helpful to my journey of like stepping
into this you know and and and you know
fast forward to now starting Messi with
my brother were co-CEOs you know and I
didn't even really want to be CEO and I
think I didn't want to be CEO because I
was intimidated like I shouldn't be a
CEO because I'm not a man or something
like which I can't even believe I just
said that sentence but I think that was
like what was in kind ingrained to me
and watching other, you know, women I
admire like Whitney Wolf her. Have you
interviewed her?
No, not yet.
From Bumble.
Oh, I need to though.
She's the founder of Bumble. Yeah. I
feel like she doesn't do a lot of like
interviews and press.
She's in Austin, I think, though.
She is in Austin.
She is. We have to make that happen.
Yeah.
Um, but like, you know, she's a CEO and
you know, even my friend, you probably
don't know this company, Kit, but uh,
Cassandra Thurs. She's
Yeah, I'm familiar with it.
Yeah. She's a good friend of mine.
Kit T. K I T C H or Kit.
Okay. Okay. I'm thinking about K. It's
like a clothing company, but not that.
But she But no, this is a um it's kind
of like a an accessories company and
she's built it from the ground up. I
don't think she's t taken any money
either. She's another really interesting
woman and she she's doing incredibly
well. And um we've been friends for a
while and I this we were actually at
like a female founder dinner recently
and I I brought up how her and I we live
in like the same neighborhood in LA and
we walk together sometimes and I
remember her being like when I was
starting Messi and I was like I think my
brother's going to be the CEO and she's
like why aren't you going to be the CEO?
I was like, "Uh, I don't think I want to
be the CEO." Like, and and and she was
like, "Why?" You know, and really like
pushed me. And I was like, "I just
don't, you know," and I was like, "I
just I'm not good at numbers and
spreadsheets and whatever." But, you
know, I I really felt like that shifted
for me. And maybe it was part part of
that conversation and part of just like
you know wanting to like really flex
that muscle and and it is like a little
like it is me stepping out of my comfort
zone a little and um but you know and me
and and I you know it's again like now
starting messy which is you know my new
brand that you guys are very familiar
with. It's like I am I am running that
company, you know, and so even though my
brother was initially initially we just
he was the CEO, but I was like I just I
feel like this is like he's got his role
and I've got my role, but I'm definitely
running this company and I you know and
I so I really wanted to be the CEO and
of course he was very open to us being
co-CEOs and whatever. But yeah, it took
it it would it took me several years to
really step into that like you know my
own power. Um, and now, you know, and I
and I hope that that is a, you know,
something that motivates other women or
girls, you know, to be like, "Yeah, I
can be the boss just as much as any guy
can."
You exited your company for $255
million. What was that process like, and
how did it feel afterwards?
Well, it was an interesting time because
we sold the company almost 10 years to
the date of starting it. And I would but
I would say around year seven eight you
know my personal life really imploded.
Um which is what how messy came to be. I
mean it was you know my marriage was
ending. Um my 13-year-old son was really
struggling and ended up going into
rehab. My mom died. I was like, you
know, it was such an interesting like
just ju just justosition like this like
I was having all this success. We were
gearing up to sell the company. We're in
many conversations where we going to go
are we going to IPO? Are we going to you
know do a private sale like what are we
going to do? And and I was just I was
underwater with everything that was
personally going on for me. So it was so
it was so interesting that you know I
I really wasn't that close to it
honestly because I was dealing with so
much of my own personal [ __ ] that you
know luckily you know we the company
like our our board our CFO our CEO my
brother like they were very much like
kind of leading the charge and you know
my brother would like give me updates
daily on what was going on and we were
you know cuz at that point we were in we
were just starting to get into a process
because I I would say it took a year to
close that deal, which is not that
abnormal, but for for me it was I was a
little bit I was I was like a little
bit, you know, not that close to it. And
and so when it actually happened, um I
think that I had spiritually and kind of
made peace with like I'm good. I'm good
to like walk away from this now. It's
been it had been 10 years and I had gone
through a lot in my personal life and
but I think what I didn't see coming was
like the like holy [ __ ] who am I now if
I'm not the founder of I mean I'll
always be the founder of Dry Bar but I'm
not running this company I'm not like so
connected to it like I used to and it
was like a major identity crisis for me
and it's like you know I'm always like
careful of how I talk about this because
it's like oh boohoo you know it's like
nobody nobody should feel bad for me
like it's nothing but but it was also
like a like what the [ __ ] do I do now
like who am I now what do I do you know
and and so I was kind of flailing around
trying to figure out that it was also
right at the start of co so we sold the
company in March of 2020 or February end
of February of 2020 and then co hit and
it was just like you know I mean I think
everybody I mean we were very lucky in
that regard but um you know major
identity crisis for me and and it you
know now that's 5 years ago and you know
it then I wrote my second book called
the messy truth which was very cathartic
and it was like I really wanted I think
I was really longing to give back so
much of what I had learned I learned so
much as someone who didn't go to college
and doesn't have a degree I was like I'm
pretty sure I just got like a master's
in business you know running this
company and and so I was like I just
want to write down every lesson that I
could conjure up and that's what the
messy truth was and then it like all the
stuff that was happening in my life as
well. And you know then it you know we
we tried some other businesses and but
you know now coming back and starting
messy um my new hair brand that was a
plug um you know has felt really
authentic and right you know for me but
it took me it took me 5 years to get to
that of that like windy road. I was
joining boards and then I was like why
am I join I mean you're sitting on a
board call for 4 hours basically talking
about numbers which I was like what am I
doing here like this is not you know for
me it's like customer experience like
building a brand that's what I'm good at
you know so it was a it was a windy road
to where I am now
what's the biggest change in going from
you know building a 150 store right
brick-andmortar type business to now a
physical product business. Oh,
it's glorious.
I love it. I love it so much. I mean
that built having that many employees
and that many stores like I'm I am
telling you guys like
few hours would go by where my phone
wasn't absolutely buzzing from and can
you imagine it's like 5,000 six maybe
8,000 I don't remember so many employees
that it's just you're constantly you
know constant it's just so constant open
seven days a week so it wasn't even like
oh you know what I'm not going nothing's
going to happen today because it's
Monday or Tuesday nobody's in the shops
didn't have that luxury, you know, and
like I I wouldn't trade it. I wouldn't
do it any differently. I'm proud of it.
I'm I loved it. But to your question, I
I mean, now, you know, starting a
product line and there there's a lot of
work and there's a lot of things we
could do, but it's a it's a such a
different animal. And I I and and I
really loved building the product line,
the Dry Bar product line. I mean, that
was like something that I I didn't know
that I knew how to do and something I
didn't know I could do well, but turned
out, you know, I could. And so having
the opportunity to kind of flex that
muscle, this thing that I actually
really loved building which doesn't
require, you know, a huge staff feels I
love it. I'm enjoying it so much.
How did you ultimately come up with the
idea for messy and why did you decide to
call it that?
Well, you know, felt like I had started
to kind of own this,
for better or worse, this kind of messy
persona of like being really vulnerable
with my audience and being really a like
authentic as I could be with what was
going on in my life, which really
started from, you know, like I mentioned
when my, you know, my my husband, my
ex-husband and I got divorced and, you
know, I was like, "No, nobody really
cares about this. I'm not like Kim
Kardashian where people are like
tracking my personal life, but we were
the founders of Jar and so we had a lot
of employees and a lot of people so we
you know like had posted about the
breakup and it it was so interesting how
many how relatable it was to people and
I think that's when I started to lean
into like I need to be really
transparent and it I think it might help
a couple people you know and then when
my son was going through what he was
going through you know that was that has
been really interesting because I was
very intentional about putting that
chapter in my book about my son and what
he went through and how hard that was
for us and how much work that took and
you know he was in rehab for almost 2
years and like the turmoil and the
therapy and all the things that I
learned. I knew that that would serve so
many other women and it did and so you
know or or families whose kids are
because it's such a like taboo subject
nobody wants to like talk about it and I
didn't either. Like I was like you know
I'm this like I've been on the cover of
magazines and I'm doing all these
things. It's like I should have my [ __ ]
together and like it felt almost like
you know I felt like ashamed that I you
know I should have this perfect son and
these perfect boys and and so I wanted
to shine light on that that like it's
nothing is perfect and just because I
have all this success here doesn't mean
that you know I have I you know I made
mistakes. I mean, that's a whole other
story, but you know, and so I think I
started to really lean into this like
being open and transparent with my life,
especially because it looked like from
the outside that I had it all. I had it
all, you know, and I and I and I didn't,
you know, I had a lot and and but so I I
really started to embrace that. And the
more I embrace it, the more I felt that
connection from women. And I cannot tell
you how many emails and DMs and that I
get from women about like, "Thanks for
talking about this and and starting to
normalize it. It's like why we don't
talk about the real things that are
going on in our life. It's like what are
we doing? Like let's be real. And so I
felt really strongly about that and and
it's messy. I mean, you know, name
somebody in your life who doesn't have
something going on that's a little
[ __ ] messy in their life, you know?
There's you can't, right? And so I, you
know, and then it what was fascinating
about that is it was really like going
back to co because I wasn't going
anywhere like everybody else. I kind of
stopped blow drying my hair and then I
started like tinkering with my curls and
like how do I get my hair how do I like
embrace the hair that I have and it's a
little messy and I kind of liked that
and I started to like kind of you know I
haven't gotten a blowout. I mean I don't
get blowouts anymore. where I wear my
hair like this and I love it. And so I
started to embrace that and it was
messy. you know that just so the you
know the intersection of my personal
life being a little bit messy and then
my hair starting to be messy just was
like so perfect you know so that's and
then when I called Sephora and I said
hey I have this idea for a product line
and I want to build something that helps
like give women permission to not be
perfect and to embrace that you know the
hair that they have and and to you know
give them products and education to
support that you know I don't think
anybody's doing that and they were like,
"Yeah, they're they're not and it's an
opportunity."
You were a shark on Shark Tank.
Yes.
What is that experience like? And when
you were on there, what did you look for
as an investor when you were wanting to
invest in the companies that came across
the table to you?
Well, you know, Shark Tank was an
interesting thing because I I remember
when I first got the call, which didn't
come from my agent, it actually just was
like a cold call from the showrunner who
had seen me on the cover of Inc. And he
was like, "Hey, you know, I I I'm the
showrunner of Shark Tank." And I was
like, "Okay." You know, really, like,
why are you calling me? You know, and he
was like, "We we want more female
sharks. Would you be interested in doing
it?" And and honestly, my first my first
was like imp impression or was like,
"No, I don't want to do it." Cuz I was
so intimidated. I mean, it was it's like
one of the biggest shows on television
with really smart people. And I was like
I got like massive imposttor syndrome in
that moment of like I don't know if I'm
going to be good on it you know and and
that was my my initial feeling and then
he you know and I I think I said that to
him. I was like well I'm not really
great at figuring out like valuations on
the spot and he's like ah it's that
don't worry about that we'll put you
next to Mark you know and I was like
okay. So, you know, and then it was like
a series of interviews and then I went
to the show one day to watch it and like
be behind the scenes so I could see how
it all worked. And, you know, it's it's
kind of one of those stories of like,
you know, we can psych ourselves out on
things that we don't think we're, you
know, worthy of and which is how I felt.
But then when I was sitting there on set
and then when I was when I talked to all
the other sharks and they were so
endearing and kind and and and I was
like, "Oh, I I can totally do this. I'll
be actually great at this." You know,
and I remember him Clay is his name. I
remember him saying, "You've got to
interrupt the other sharks. Like that's
just part of the deal." And I was like,
"That's not going to be a problem." You
know, and because they were like, "You
can't what the one thing we don't want.
It won't work is if you get there and
you're shy and you're you're not
speaking up. Like then it doesn't Mark
and I was like, "Oh, you definitely
don't have to worry about that. I have
very strong opinions, you know, and I
did." And so, you know, and and they
really embraced me and did sit me next
to Mark and I would what you don't see
in Shark Tank is that, you know, when
the cameras on one of the sharks, like
I'd be over on the side with Mark being
like, "Wait, can you give me like can
Mark's like a mathematical genius, you
know, and I was like, "Give me the quick
numbers on that." And he'd be like, and
I was like, "Okay, I got it." You know?
So, yeah. What did you learn about doing
business with close friends and family?
Cuz in dry bar, right, your husband was
a business partner, your brother was a
business partner.
Yeah.
How do you feel about that dynamic?
You know, I think it it can work. I
think regardless of whether it's a
husband, friend, brother, sister, or
just, you know, anybody, I think the key
to a great partnership, and I'm curious
if this is the case for you guys, is
like everybody knows their lane and and
everybody respects what everybody else
is good at. You know, in our case, my my
brother was more of like the behind the
scenes, running numbers, finding leases,
like negotiating deals. Like, that's
what he did. I was very obviously front
of house and front facing and you know
informed obviously the product and the
training and the customer service like
that was my piece. my ex-husband was
the, you know, the brand genius and
mastermind and and that's what he did.
And so it worked so well because we all
had we knew our we knew our areas of
expertise and we didn't and not that we
we discussed all of it together and if
there was like you know a difference of
like you know the the ultimate decision
would go to the person who's like that's
their thing you know so we kind of would
stand out of each other's way when it
come to when it came to making big
decisions because that was kind of their
thing and and I've been in partnerships
where everybody's like wants to the same
job, the same responsibilities and then
that just gets harder cuz it's like who
gets to be the person who's you know
whether it's like a you know press thing
or whatever it is I think that's when
partnerships are really hard no matter
who it's with it's like you don't you
don't have clear boundaries do you guys
have that
we believe in the comp well we
definitely all have like our strengths
and we complement each other in a great
way I think what has allowed us to work
so well is we're all very honed in on
the same vision and the same value
system for the company that we're
building, but we also believe in the
concept of like
divide and conquer
that that helps no yes men like meaning
like meaning like like
we're not afraid to like even though
like we're brothers, we're friends, like
we will we will argue.
Yeah, I bet. like we we will like we'll
not
we we'll we'll hash it out over
decisions and uh that's good that like
even like little thing even like the
time like he'll come to me or come to
Josh with like the video that's supposed
to go out like the um like the interview
and it'll be like hey like watch this
over what like like what do you feel
about it and like I'll I'll give my
opinion I'll be like that part of the
video sucked or I'll be like that was
awesome we should do that like if you
don't have that then like why why are we
on the like like why hire people, you
know, cuz everybody everybody has to be
able to like give you know their
strategic input. They're they're there
for a reason otherwise that's just like
I'm not paying you to agree with me.
It's so true. I mean, I ran into that so
much at Dry Bar where I remember like,
you know, my team would be talking about
something and they'd be like, "Oh," you
know, and then I'd walk in and they
would and I was like, "What?" Like, and
they just didn't want to tell me like
something bad that was happening or
whatever. And I was like, "You have to
tell me like it's for for the good of
the business. Like, I need to that I
need to like think of this business
holistically and make sure I understand
all the things that are happening. Like,
don't try to protect me, you know?" And
so, I to I totally agree with that. How
do you feel about the current landscape
of Dry Bar today?
Because, you know, anytime I I see
anything Dry Bar related, I think of
you. You know,
I saw one when I got Sweet Green last
week. There's one right next.
Well, not even that, though. But now you
go to like a hotel and they've got like
So, so I guess they've kind of been
doing some different verticals now. How
do you feel about everything that's kind
of happened to your company today?
I mean, I have mixed feelings.
Let us know. Let us know.
I mean, I I always want to be
respectful. Um but you know it is part
of the deal when you sell a big company
like that that there is going to be you
know change. Do you have any involvement
at all with any?
Zero. Zero. And And also like I'd be
lying if I said I wasn't a little I
don't know like bummed, hurt, offended
that they I wasn't asked to stay
involved cuz I wasn't, you know, and
you know, and so, you know, I I get
countless emails and texts and DMs from
people that are like, "It's just not the
same anymore." And I'm like, well, I'm
sure because
it was such a like passionled like
female or founder brand and then now
it's not, you know, and so inevitably
things are going to change. So, it's
weird. It's it's a it's a complicated
complicated answer for me because it
will always be my legacy and I will
always be proud of it. You know, when I
hear those sto I haven't stepped foot in
a dry bar in five years, but when I hear
those stories, I'm sad.
Not even the one in Saudi.
No, none.
Is there a reason for that?
I think I just
like is a sense of resentment in a way,
you think?
I just don't I don't know what the
reason exactly is other than like I
don't think I could stomach it because
when I was running it, I was so
particular, incredibly over-the-top
particular on how everything was, you
know, and I I'll pass by them and look
in the window and be like, you know,
because I had there were so many when I
talk about the details, there are so
many details and so many things that
were really important to me that I
worked my ass off to try to make happen
every single day in every single store.
It was so hard. So, I know that there's
no chance that those things are
happening the way to the level that I
want them to. I'm sure that I I know the
brand is still like doing well and I'm
happy. I wanted to do well. I wanted to
like it's my legacy. like I want to do
well but the level of detail that I feel
and that I you know even when I owned it
I would walk in and be like you know I
mean the f you know it's it actually was
a lot of like therapy with me and John
our CEO and be like don't walk in the
store and be a raging [ __ ] because I
would walk in the store and be like like
so many things are not the way they're
supposed to be from for me but like you
would walk in the store and be like this
is amazing you know which I think is a
healthy rub and as a founder like or
somebody's got to be that person that's
really discerning you know and I was
always that person. So to walk into it
now having no control over what's
happening, I just think I'm like I don't
want to like I want it
drive you crazy.
Yeah. I want to remember it in its glory
days. And so I don't Yeah. But I I I
will always love the brand. I will
always be proud of the brand and I'm I'm
glad that it lives on and you know you
just kind of like you you emotionally
detached.
Yeah. someone someone you've mentioned a
lot is uh is the CEO John
and when you're scaling you decided to
you know make the decision to bring on a
CEO what was
well I didn't make the decision and that
was maybe the question that you're
getting to is like our private equity
guys at the 11th hour of that deal of
you know our first big raise pulled my
brother aside who's the CEO and said hey
you know at some point we're probably
going to need to bring in a professional
CEO at that point we were so like just
wanted to [ __ ] close the deal that we
were like okay I remember my brother
telling telling me that like not right
away and I was I I had such a strong
like adverse re response that I was like
I don't want us to have another CEO like
I don't want us to lose the magic and
whatever and you know and they were
rightfully so cast was looking ahead and
going like this thing is going to get
really big and you Michael might not be
the guy to do it you know and I was like
I didn't I had like ego for him you know
and I and I was really afraid that we
were going to bring in this like ivory
tower CEO and they were going to be so
disconnected from what we were trying to
do and that it wasn't going to it was
just going to like ruin the company
culture, you know, and and I was wrong
about that and I but I put up a fight
and I was like, you know, made a real
big stink about it, you know, and they
were like, let us do the work, you know,
we're going to go find you a bunch of
candidates and we'll only bring you
people that we think are great. And I
was like, okay, but I'm not going to
like anybody, you know, I was such a
brat about it. But, you know, we met
John and I, you know, his John Hefner
and you know, if you if you know him,
you've kind of, he's from Idaho. He's
like the nicest human on the planet and
he's so smart and he's worked with so
many, you know, he worked in so many
founder organizations, which I think is
was the key that like someone who really
understood it's a very different
company. A founder company versus like a
corporate company is like a completely
different animal. So, he really
understood it and I remember him saying
to us in in the initial interview like I
with me and my brother like we're like a
three-legged stool like this doesn't
work without all three of us and and he
just he always really like honored and
respected my vision for the company and
we really locked arms and and he he was
amazing.
Yeah.
We like to end these off with two
questions to leave every guest with.
Okay. But if you've got one guiding
principle that you could leave with the
younger generation with everything that
you've known that you've accumulated,
the knowledge, the people,
one more message for the younger
generation, what would that be?
I think it would be lead with kindness,
you know. I think that like we've
I think for me, you know, I in the when
I initially started running Dry Bar and
I felt like I needed to know everything
and
and and have all the answers and
be this like strong powerful person, you
know, which I I think I I am on some
level. But I have found that and we get
so as as leaders and I don't know if you
guys experience this but we we're moving
really fast and furious and and it's
like you can't forget to be kind to
everybody to the people who work up and
down you know the people who work for
you the people who you you report to
whoever it is you know like I think that
you know not to get too woo woo but like
kindness and love is like really what
it's all about at the end of the day and
if you don't love what you're doing you
don't love the mission that you're on
and you're not being you're not being
kind to people. People aren't being kind
to you. It's like what are what are we
doing it for? You know, it's like money
isn't everything. It's just really not.
And if everything was all said and done
tomorrow, how would you want to be
remembered? Well, first and foremost, as
a great mom, um,
and I think with, uh,
you know, I don't I don't think I ever
really thought much about like my
personal legacy until Dry Bar and And I
I also didn't, like we were talking
about before, like I didn't plan on,
you know, I didn't know any of this was
going to happen, you know, and and what
I ended up what we ended up doing was
like, you know, creating this path
pathway for more female entrepreneurs
and you know and I think that I and what
people were saying I I wasn't saying
about myself what people were saying
about me was like you know you impacted
and changed you know an already
multi-billion dollar business and I you
know I I think I like I would like to be
remembered for you know making an impact
and being a a really strong female
leader you know who who wasn't afraid to
go for it.
I love it.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Well, Ally, this was an incredible
episode and we greatly appreciate your
time and being here with us today.
So, for everybody that's tuned in right
now,
we're going to plug your, you know,
information down in the description, Ali
Webb on social media. Anything else we
should know about? We know that you've
got an awesome company uh on the way
that's, you know, out now. Messi
just launched. Yeah. I don't know when
this episode's going to launch, but
yeah, our new product line messy is it's
@ it's messy on Instagram and Tik Tok
and uh exclusively in Sephora in all
Sephora doors. So, you can go get it.
And that's, you know, that's my big
project right now.
And anything else exciting going on?
Anything else?
I'm working on a couple other things.
Nothing nothing quite ready to talk
about, but I'm always working on
something. It's that entrepreneurial
brain.
I love it. Guys, be sure to first of all
go follow Ali on all platforms. It's
happening with It's Messy. And be sure
to like and subscribe for amazing
content we've got coming every week
going around the world interviewing the
most successful business owners just
like Ali Webb. If you haven't done it
yet, go down, click the link in the
description to become a member of the
number one community for business owners
in the entire world today, the School of
Mentors, where every week we give you
guys direct access to live calls with
the 8 figureure, nine figure, and
billionaire entrepreneurs that we
interview every week on this channel.
So, we can't wait to see you on the
inside.