stop what you're doing. The way you're
approaching trading is likely why you'renot yet consistently profitable. But
that can change starting right now.You've probably seen countless videos
promising quick profits and foolproofstrategies. Let's cut right through the
noise. Building a successful tradingcareer isn't about finding a magic
indicator. It's about building a robusttrading business that pulls consistent
profits from the market. How do I know?I'm Mike Bellafiori, co-founder of SMB
Capital, a premier proprietary tradingfirm with offices in New York City and
Miami. We've built our reputation on onething, creating elite traders. Many of
our traders consistently earn seven andeven eight figures a year because we
provide them with a blueprint thatworks. In this video, we're going to
share a piece of that blueprint with youso you can start building a trading
business that lasts and pulls consistentprofits from the market. If you're
serious about your craft, your searchfor real actionable guidance ends here.
Let's get started. Feel all excited andnervous at the same time. I don't think
it would be I wouldn't be human to feelfeel nervous in a high performance
opportunity. I trust myself that I'll dogood. I I trust the analysis and the
trade. I've gotten good guidance fromSMB. Team is going to do great near this
20-day moving average, which is our redline here. And that's the convergence of
this pivot low VWAP on 523, which isthat pink line. We rallied back above.
And we've been holding that year to dateVWAP since
since the um we'll just stick to thelevels. Just stick to the chart. Stick
to this. Yeah. That's um May 12th. May12th. Yeah. So that's cool that you know
that cuz then you could help me. Yeah,that's with that and you could say the
news for that day. The one thing I'dlike to maybe that we could have that he
may not do is like what were the ticksdoing that day? I don't know. I don't
know. I don't know the breath. We hadgapped up into that year-to- date VWAP
and that year VWAP high and traded 439%above its 20-day average volume.
[Music]Yeah.Yeah.
The opportunity is really aboutcompeting. It's really about showcasing
what you've learned and what you've beenchallenged by.
This is your opportunity to compete.This is your opportunity to stand out.
Let's see how you guys do.The playbook's an exercise that you guys
should be doing every day. It's anexercise where at the end of the day,
you should go back and you should lookfor a trade that really worked. Either
you made it and it really worked and itmakes a lot of sense to you or you heard
or saw or found out or spotted a tradethat really worked that maybe you
weren't in that you're going to go backand you're going to break down. The
playbook is a template that we've puttogether that helps you to break down a
trade into certain components intocertain variables so that you can study,
study, study the heck out of the besttrades. Every day at the end of the
close, go back and deconstruct in thisplaybook template form a trade that made
the most sense to you, whether you madeit or whether you spotted it. All right,
make sense? And then you're going tocompile all of these playbook trades
from session after session of youtrading. And that is going to be what
you look to to build your tradingbusiness. You're going to fret it
through the playbook trades that you'vedone and you're going to pick out the
trades that you like the best that youtrade the best in real time and you're
going to do more of them. Okay? You'llmeasure your success with these trades
in real time. The ones you do best,you'll keep more of. The ones that you
don't do well with, you'll eliminate.All right? But you should not be making
any tradesduring real time, during market hours
that are not already in your playbook.If you are making trades that are not in
your playbook, that is you overtrading.You should know exactly when you get
into a trade why you're in it, whatvariable is you were looking for to be
in it, and how you're going to trade it.Does that make sense? Yes. Okay. And so
to be able to do that in real time,we've got to do these exercises. This
playbook exercise, we've been doing itfrom longer than I can actually even
remember. This is what we've been doingsince
a long time ago that all of our guys doat the beginning of their careers to
build out how they're going to trade.Okay, makes sense. All right, so uh
we're going to go through you're goingto effect this up and you're going to go
through a playbook trade that you puttogether. You're going to do so in the
template form that we use. Now look,when you get a little bit older and a
little bit more experienced, you canindividualize
your playbook. Maybe you tweaksomething, add something, take something
out. That's fine. At the beginning,let's stick with the template and get
good at it. All right? But certainlyfeel free to individualize it. And what
we're doing for what we're doing for youhere with this template is helping you
to construct a good trade. Helping youto learn how to think through a trade
like a professional.That's what you want you to do. All
right? And then from there, when youlearn how to think like a professional,
you're going to be able to create manymore trades than we ever teach you.
All right? and you'll have a diverse,comprehensive, vast playbook with lots
of opportunity. All right. So, you'regoing to run through
this is your first time? This is myfirst time. You're going to run through
you uh for the first time a playbooktrade that you guys have put together.
Uh you've done so in a team.Yes. Okay. And uh we're going to go
through each of the 10 variables that gointo a playbook. All right. So, we're
going to go over the big picture, that'spart of the playbook. Intraday
fundamentals, that's part of theplaybook. Stock selection,
that's part of the playbook. Technicalanalysis, hopefully you have that in
there. Uh, trade strategy,risk management, reading the tape,
technology, trade review, and then I'llactually grade you guys on diligence
again. All right. Uh, now Jeff talkedabout the opportunity. The opportunity
here is for you guys to compete.Competing means getting a score of 80
or better on each of the 10 variableswhich we're going to grade you on. Okay?
And above 80 means you've done well.You've competed well for this exercise.
Below 80 means needs more work.Uh we're in week three of the
internship.This week three, four week four. Week
four. Yeah. Time flies. Okay. Uh so youguys have been here about four weeks and
uh we'll go through that as always. Soyou got to get you got to get better
than 80. How we feeling? Very good. Feelgood. I don't have the tape, so I'm
already starting down to nine. I feellike uh colleagues, how how we feeling
for these guys? I think they'll do now.I'm praying for you guys.
I remember I remember the first one Idid of this and it was rough. We have
had playbooks go very poorly in the inthe past.
But don't like like Gary said just alearning lesson. If the opportunity
comes, we just learn from it. If it goesreally really poorly, just remember
there's there's a lot of room forimprovement. So that's always a
positive. Hopefully that doesn'thopefully it doesn't happen. Uh I'll try
not to yell you Jeff I can't promisethough. Jeff Jeff may fly off the handle
at you guys. Um, all right. So, this isyour first first crack at in front of
us. What I love So, 80 is the the thelevel you got to hit. That's the number
you got to hit. There'll be 10 of thesecategories and we'll grade you one to 10
out of each of these categories. Allright. So,
um, why don't you just tell us a littlebit about yourselves and where you're at
in your trading career and then who'sgoing to be the point person? who's
going to be a point guard. Okay. Andthen uh why don't you get to your your
playbook and we'll go through it. Sotell us a little bit about yourself and
and how how you guys got here. My nameis James Domino. I've been trading for
just over three years. I started rightwith the winning trader and the DNA
trader. I took that. I went off and gotmy CMT, my chartered market technician.
Came back and did the mentorship withJustin uh LA February 2024.
And um so big everything I've learned ispretty much from the S&B Capital and a
big advocate who's my CMT sponsor isBrian Shannon which is gave me a lot of
education on the volume weighted averageprices as we know I like to trade the
VWAP. So that's that's some backgroundabout me.
My name is Felix Dust. I'm from Germany.Been trading for three years now. Um,
I've been offered a seat at SMB for ansummer internship
and I'm very happy to be here um with alot of competitive people, smart people
in this room and I'm very grateful tolearn from this from this from this
group of people. So, I'm Misha Trupo.I'm from Austin, Texas and I've been
trading for three plus years now. supergrateful to be here and I'm a rising
senior at Mbury College. All right, sowe're going to start out here with the
bigger picture. Here we have the chartof the S&P 500 and we can see here that
the SPY is gapping down near the 20-daymoving average, which also coincides
with that prior low anchored VWAP fromMay 23rd. So we got the red line is the
20-day moving average. That pink is thatprior swing low VWAP that we're gapping
down into, which is our key level ofsupport is that 593 and 594 level is our
key level of support. We're noting thatwe have some overhead resistance at that
round number 600 and 604. So that we'rereally monitoring that break of 600 and
hold to to confirm the upsidecontinuation.
20 days ago, which is that red verticalline that goes across the chart. That
that was the neckline of resistance, andwe've been rejecting that. And then
we've actually broke above it uh theprior three days, and it's the first
time we're pulling back and testing thisuh former neckline of resistance.
So, that's our bigger picture for thespy. Okay. One little thing that I
always find interesting.This is very good, but we've talked
about this in prior meetings a lot. Isprior low anchored VWAP from 523.
Okay, great. Why does that matter? Thatshould be called out on the chart as why
that matters. Why does 523 matter?523 matters because it's the prior swing
low. If we could see here that werallied up to the 600 level on the on
the the vertical line 20 days ago and werejected. Yes. And that that was a
potential change. That was when a changein character from those three down days
started to to change. So it's that'swhere the buyers kick back in. Right. So
that's that'swhen we talk about specificity, when we
talk about competing, you want to beable to pull up a playbook 10 years from
now, read it, and instantly understandwhat was happening. And so that is
something that is really important toget right. And it doesn't seem like a
lot when you're writing the playbook,but think about it as the story of
what's happening. And a good book youcan pick up and read. I mean,
reminiscent of a stock operator. Onegood trade. These books were written a
significant amount of time ago andthey're still Wait, what was that second
book? One good trade. I have to checkthat out. It was not written that long
ago, but it was written a period of timeago. But those stories, you pick it up
and you can read it, right? You wantyour playbook to be very similar that
you can pick it up and you can just Iunderstand what was happening here. I
understand the story of what's going onbecause that same or a very similar
version of that story is going to playout over and over and over again. And
you don't want to have to think throughall the variables or like pull it
together. You want it just right there.Right? So it's a noticing why did I put
that? What's really the significance ofthat? If you thought it was important
enough to put it in there, why was itimportant enough to put it in there?
Okay. Yeah, it was that prior swing low.So, we had that rejection of 600 and we
could actually see it held the handoffVWAP from the year-to- date high which
is the green which is the green umanchor VWAP. So, really quickly, you
want to say the buying started here. I'mlooking at the anchor VWAP from that
where that where I saw the buying start.That's it. Okay. So, so the buying had
started after that rejection from 600.So, we anchored that VWAP at 523, which
we could see provided an uptrend to tothe prior neckline of resistance and
above. Yep. Simple enough. Yep.Little things like that matter a lot
when and we're we're talking about halfpoints in in our scoring process. But
those half points, you really want tocompete to get those half points.
And then we have the similar setup here,very same chart here on the cues today
here. So, similar setup. We had that gapdown to that 20-day moving average
premises, that same VWAP that we hadthat change in character. Um, but the
vertical line we could see 20 days agowe decline and that was the change of
character where buyers stepped in. Sothat that that was the
that's why we anchored that. That gaveus a key support level
of 52440to 525 and we were looking for
continuation or a breakdown. So, and ifwe lost the 524 level, we're going to
monitor the 513.And we had overhead resistance above at
531, 533, 537.So, now we're getting into Okay. And so,
I like when we're going over the bigpicture to very clearly mark what the
most important technical levels are forSPY, Q's, and a corresponding ETF. I
think he did that pretty well. I alsolike to think about if I were writing
the nightly news for CNBC, what would Itell the audience are the most important
ingredients that the market participantsare interested in? So, right now tariffs
right now Iran Israel war I think that'sfair to say, right? Yes. Is is the war
with Iran and Israel going to spread oris is it behind us? are tariffs uh
likely to be behind us or are we gonnahave more of of that as as a headwind?
Okay. And to Jeff's point,this is going to be your database
from which you do lots of study andconstruction of of trades with edge. So,
so make it a really robust one. Allright. Uh Jeff, on a scale of 1 to 10
for a big picture, what what are youthinking? I mean, I thought this was
actually very good. I had it at like 9.2probably. And the reason being is
because you clearly identifiedwhat was happening in the bigger
picture.You clearly identified the areas that
were very important to you in thistrade.And although we did identify a couple
things that you could do better, this isa very very good start.
Thank you. I think you're a little bitof an easy grader, but okay. 9.2.
Let's move on. Yeah. All right. Just toinclude too, we do have relating to what
you had said, let's just go here.Technical analysis, we got RH here now.
So, we got the chart. We have the 20-daymoving average, which is a red line. 50
days is our blue. And we have ouryear-to- date premises. So, we have the
we have earnings and we're gapping upinto where we could see is the year-to-
date and the year-to- date VWAP high.And if we look left at the chart 20 days
ago, which is our red vertical line,price had gapped up into this premises.
And we could look at what what did itdo? It completely failed. Right? We look
left at the chart. We have the verticalline that's 50 days ago. just left of
the 50 days ago, just left of the data50 days ago, we have a bounce, a rally
that rallied right into this premisesand failed epically again. So, as we had
this gap up on earnings, we we saidthat, you know, we're seeing a similar
pattern here over and over again. So,that that was the key context that we uh
we're seeing from here. And then we'redigging into the technical analysis even
further to just make an objective viewwhere we just broke it down saying that
from just simple tech technical analysisthat the RH is trading underneath the
200 day giving that a minus one. Priceis trading
under and rallying into its year-to-date VWAP and year-to- date VWAP high.
We're giving that minus two which we'veseen in the past. It's rejected. the
50-day moving average is declining andright although price is just trading
above the slope is declining when you'resaying minus one uh and minus2 what do
you mean by that so out of theseindicators of of three moving averages
and three VWAPs we're just kind ofgiving a a positive score and a negative
score from to be objective on ourtechnical analysisso with that being said is that you know
um if we're trading above an averagewe're going to give it a positive score.
We're trading below. We're going to giveit uh a negative. And so we can see here
that the the overall technical setup iswhen we place this on is we're giving it
a minus four out of six as it layersinto the resistance. So the only
positive factor from the technical viewis that the RH is just holding that
year-to- date VWAP low, which we can seeis the gold line that's been holding
this up. Every gap since April 2nd, aswe mentioned, has been sold into and the
stocks have been just showing relativeweakness. Okay. Uh Jeff,
technical analysis. Let's go back tothat real quick. Let me go back to this.
On a scale of 1 to 10, what are wegiving them? There are some really good
positives here.We love when you can systematize
anythingand particularly when you can
systematize the quality of theopportunity that you're looking at. So
in this case, you're creating a scoringsystem which is systematically allowing
you tolook at the opportunity.I get concerned with this because
there are things that you're missingwithin this system. Very simple things
that really could be easy to capture.It's trading below its declining 200 day
moving average. Well, the decliningmoving average could be one. Trading
below it could be a different one.It's also trading under and rallying its
into its year-to- date VWOP and year-to-date high. Negative -2. Those are great,
but how far under? Is it within 5%? Isit within 10%. Like those are little
things that can make a huge differencewhen you're going back and looking at
not just this opportunity, but hundredsof opportunities over the course of your
trading career like that.You are correct that overall the
technical setup is weak, but I'd like tosee a little more evolution in the way
that you're scoring it. I do think it'svery good though and I will stay soft in
my scoring. I'm going to give it aneight out of 10. I was going to do it
8.5, but that's why I got in there.Okay, there you go. All right, that's an
eight. Okay. And it's funny. Um, we'reall fractional on different time frames.
I literally was thinking about thepercentage of the daily VWAP and the
two-day VWAP as I'm getting these playsand starting to study that and this is
certain distance away. So, it's sorelevant right now. This is exactly why
you do the playbook exercise is becausewe could conceptually
come up with the best opportunity. Wecan sit here and talk about the best
things that are going to occur, but whatwe're doing what by doing the playbook
is you're gettingyou're getting more specific just by
doing that exercise. And then you'reallowing yourself to come up with what a
lot of people would call is creativity,but really it's just you understand the
reps and you understand how the howthese things play and you can think
about, yeah, what's the spread on thisanchored VWOP versus that anchored VWAP?
And then you extrapolate that out andpeople are like, wow, they're he's
brilliant at coming up with thesesetups. And it's like, no, you've just
done the work. Yeah, it's really notrocket science. It's just you doing the
work and you recognize these things overand over and then you stay curious and
you pull on some threads and find someedge there and you pull on something
else and you find some edge here and allof a sudden it all comes together and it
looks like you just pulled this out ofnothing, but it's just these little
pieces that all get put togetherplaybook after playbook after playbook.
Yeah, the little things make the bigthings happen. They do.
Sohand it over to Felix here background.
I'm going to take over this slide herebecause we came up. This is a little bit
more about the stock story. We hadearnings on the day before than after
hours. We had a positive reaction to itbecause they reported revenue that was
slightly um under or at the theestimates. They had a 12%
growth year-over-year. And what wassurprising and what I believe to be the
catalyst for the first reaction up, thereported EPS beat. Uh the market were
wasum expecting a negative EPS and they
reported a positive EPS.um
non-GAAP and um so this is first of alla quite a good sign um they're keeping
the outlook for 10% growth of the yearunder the assumption that the terrorists
will not change this is a bet in myopinion this is a bet from the company
um how the market will behave umfor me personally this is not solid
assumption because they have absolutelyno control of this. So they tried to
reduce the China sourcing from 16 to 2%which did not happen yet. um they had
lower operating margins than the yearbefore. And so I had a quick look at the
income sheet of the company from thecompany's website. And that's actually
why we wanted to show you this becauseit took us 3 minutes to to pull this
sheet up, have a quick look at it, andto get a framework around these reports,
around these earnings reports. Um,you look at it and you see margin did
not improve. The stock is weak. You lookat the net income and you see that this
net income solely came out of adifferent company Aspen LLC. Um
they they claimed like represents theportionate proportionate share of the
net income of our equity methodsinvestments. So that means that RH did
not make any money but the whole uhincome of this company came from another
company. So why would this EPS beatmatter to the stock story?
They did not improve their corebusiness. They just they adjusted maybe
their numbers to shine a good spotlightat the right places to impress the
market. AndI like to look at it. I mean, I'm not an
an expert in this and I don't think youshould or need to actually put in a lot
of hours into this, but this is anexample um where like three minutes look
at it and then you have have an ideaabout this and together with the
technical anal analysis from James, weput up a trading plan for this.
That's literally the single best interms of intraday fundamentals. That's
the single best descriptionthat I've actually ever seen. Oh, thank
you.I mean, I can't stress enough how much I
love love love how you went to theincome income sheet and
very quickly, and Spencer would lovethis, by the way, because Spencer loves
all things that point out how foolishpeople are in Wall Street.
He he he he could make a living off ofthat. Maybe actually probably does. Umthat was terrific.
That was really good. There's twoimportant principles that I want to
point out that are super important forthe younger people in this room with a
little bit less experience. Anytime yousee the first the first one is anytime
you see lower operating margins Iactually think that should be in red.
That's a huge deal. The streethates
when margins are going down. the streetshoots first and asks questions later
about companies that have margins thatare declining.
Essentially, for the young people, thatjust means whatever they make, they're
making less money on it. That's terriblefor a business.
It's one of the most important things tolook at in a report. our margin and and
and the opposite of that is anytime yousee margins are increasing,
the street loves that,right? It's one of the most important
things to to call out of a report. Andthe second thing is,the second thing is from this is that
you pointed out and got right to theheart heart of the matter of how is the
coreof the business doing? And when you're
looking at an earnings report, you youdo want to call that out. How how is the
core of this business doing? And sothere can be lots of times where, hey,
maybe somebody sold some real estatethat they had on the books for a long
time and the revenue is higher and theprofits are higher, but that's not what
they do. They just have a piece ofproperty or they've got this fancy tax
loss that they can take and they take itand the numbers look great, but it's a
one-off and that's not what they do.They're not in the business of tax
harvesting.Um and then you know to the flip side of
that it can be the case where you knowthe core business is really expanding
and they're growing. The street thestreet loves that. Okay. But I just I
just this is so good. I don't even haveto go over to the board. Like that's a
it's literally the best that I've everseen in this room. Okay. On in
fundamentals. Great job. 10 out of 10.Awesome. So, we came up with a trade
strategy and we learned from Jeff thatgap into resistance or support and we
hada look at the what was working in the
markets before and since James pointedout the technicals we came up with two
scenarios. First scenario gap intoresistance and push higher. So basically
bull case um that would have meant umafter the after hours pre-market
consolidation around $212 it wouldcontinue to the 220 area consolidate
again and breaks above with a target of226 and 230. That was scenario number
one, but we favored from the beginningscenario number two, which was gap into
resistance and fade, which it actuallydid. Um, we assumed this would spike
this after hours pre-market earningsreaction would continue
uh right at the open and then fails. Andwe were looking for a reversion to
Weebopand then target the pre-market lows. Um,
we thought, okay, maybe this is somesort of consolidating at the pre-market
lows and then fails again down to 188 or190. Um, yeah. So, our risk allocation
was an A, not an A+ because of theliquidity. This is not a highly liquid
stock. So, first of all, no big size ispossible. there's a there's a ceiling to
the scalability of this whole play. Um,which is not our problem at the moment.
Um,but our problem could be slippage and a
widening spread on volatile brutalmoves. So we would grade this as an A
allocation not an A+ and we would go foraround 50 maybe um start to scale into
the position especially if this umopening high did fail
and scale into the position while goingdown. Jeff,
it's good you guys are trading the setupthere and
I would like to see, you know, we talkedabout it yesterday and the day before of
trading the setup versus the trade. Youhave the setup there.
The one thing that's super interestingto me isif you have this setup playing out, you
did put the subset variables in there ofsort of the trades, but they're not put
out. Put the trade in there. what kindof trades sort of there. They're not
specifically called out. So, I thinkit's still very good. Um,
I don't like the fact the one thing Ireally don't like is you have scenario
one which is not the one that you'relooking for and you didn't talk about
the risk unless you're going to risk 50to 80% on the long. No,
you guys made a very compelling argumentto not risk any money on the law and you
have scenario one saying we'll put somerisk on the law. So, that's a good point
and I think that's just wasn't thoughtabout. Uh, we definitely would want to
be thinking the the a setup was the gap.It's a resistance and then would be
doing a smaller size on on the chase,but I didn't even think about that. So,
that's you want to be really carefulwith this. So that's why the very first
thing we had everybody do here, the veryfirst day was write out your sizing
scorecard.It doesn't seem that important, but the
difference between just using an examplefrom today of some of the trades that
some of the traders made. We had twoguys that are about two years in now put
up one of the biggest trades of themonth because they recognized it was an
A+ opportunity.They might not get another A+
opportunity for two weeks.They're still going to be trading every
single day for two weeks. They're goingto be in there every single trade.
Their risk allocation is going to becompletely different for anything that's
not A+.So it doesn't it seems like an
intellectual exercisebut it's a habit that you build and it
permeates everything that you do so thatit can become instantaneous. So for
something like this we'd want you to getan eight out of 10 or better. I don't
think you get to eight here. Why?Um well there's no stops number one. Um
like a potential area where we're wrong.I think that could be definitely should
be inserted. Uh I think Jeff hit thenail on the head and I think for future
references if I'm going to put thesescenarios to make sure to pro to
allocate the proper risk for eachscenario. So that's two things I think
that definitely can use someimprovement.
I do do this on a lot of the tradeswhich what Jeff said was almost what I
would look for is like backside. Okay.And then there's another reason which is
whatand it's it's the big difference between
what we're going to teach you guys here.You guys are here to become skilled
active bionic discretionary traders.You're not here to generate ideas and
then push the buttons. You're here togenerate ideas but then also be a
skilled, active, bionic, discretionarytrader.
Skilled means what? Being really good atwhat?
Risk management. What's being a skilledtrader? You're really good at what?
Discipline.Execution, right? Execution. And so I
don't know what you mean by fails.That's not spec. That's not good enough
to be a skilled active bionicdiscretionary trader.
You you've gota you've got to have somevariables behind exactly what fails
means.Maybe it means a break of a two-minute
candle. Uh maybe it means description ofserious weakness that's really clear
that I can see on the tape. Maybe it's abreak of a trend line. Honestly, I'm not
I'm not really that concerned at thispoint about how you define it, although
I would be later. Yeah. But you got todefine it. And it's the different and
not defining it is a difference betweenwhy our firm at our firm, our traders
outperform people on the street in ourspace and why other people in our space
who even make money can't hold thecandle to our best traders. it's because
they're not specific enough about theirentries and their exits. Okay, so I I
wanted to find that. So, we're gonna goseven on that. Okay, let's move on.
So, we're getting to the trademanagement. We're going to the next
slide we're going to zoom into moredetail. Just this is a fivem minute
chart. I just wanted to give us the theaftermarket earnings reaction and
um Garrett has even tal talked about ittoo is putting that anchor VWAP from the
event which is that maroon line whichalso kind of correlates with with uh
Mike was just saying is what wouldconfirm that breakdown what would
confirm that break that failure of 200and I was monitoring that anchor VWAP to
be um start to act as resistance. Sothis is just a five minute chart of the
aftermarket and the intraday tradeaction. And now we're going to just zoom
in here and talk about what happenedhere. So in the pre-market we had the
gap down from the earnings reaction andthen we filled that gap. We could see in
the pre in the pre-market we got alittle shake out on the opening drive
and then we ripped up to the 222premises 220. So ideally we were looking
for it to hold the aftermarket high. Sothis was the scenario where we looked to
see it break above 220 and that bullishscenario we would have been likened to
see the 220 hold right and we could seewe had a fast failed move and almost
like a backside short right and thenthat's actually where I started to enter
on number one was the entry of the breakof the VWAP for a fashionable late
risking the high a day and I really Iwas this is more of like a feeler
because that we're still in a the rangeright down um and I'm playing my bias,
right? So then I covered into the lowerday premises, but then once we rallied
back up and held underneath the VWAP andretested the 9 EMA
at bullet three, you could see here thatwe added back to the on the reclaim of
the 9 EMAand we actually then added to the short
again on the break on. Okay, so onething about when you do your playbook
trade, so when you do your playbooktrade, we just go over one trade. Okay.
So, I love uh how ambitious you are togo over lots of trades, but when you do
a playbook, it's just one trade, veryspecific on the variables, and you just
go over that. Okay. Okay. Uh secondthing, so you've got like six trades
here. Uh so maybe I'll let you pick one.So, just pick one. Let's stick with the
um opening range break here at bulletfour here. All right. So, we had the
opening range break at at at bulletfour. So you can see on the opening
drive we dipped to the earnings VWAPthat maroon line we rallied up right
this was the change in character atbullet four. This one is four at bullet
four. Yep. You could see that at thispoint we've broken the low of day
already and there kind of preceding thatwas like our opening range break. So we
broke the low of day and we're retestingthis. So support is now potentially
being retested as resistance. We'rerisking that blowoff candle and we're
looking to trade this into the 2-dayVWAP which we covered into 198 which was
a little early. Um we actually at 7 wecovered into the week to date and okay
so so four is the entry. Four is theentry. Seven is the exit. Seven is the
exit. Why why the entry? What's four?Why are we entering there? Four was uh
opening range break. Okay. Um and it's alittle bit Okay, good. Yeah. before
opening cover is cover was um the weekthe debate view app and prior debut app
which they were converging. Got so likethat trade. Okay. And I think that's
probably a move to move tradeand I love that you're working on move
to move trades at the beginning of yourcareer. I think that's great to learn
how to scalp make moveto move trades. Idon't think though and I think that's
great. Okay. I think that's great andI'm going to encourage you guys to do
more of that because I think that's howyou really learn how to trade.But
this is not a move to move trade. Thisis a trade to hold. Okay. This is a
trade to hold. Why?The the bigger view, the bigger picture.
Yeah. I mean, if I were to if I werejust ask you guys, hey, in terms of a
news catalyst on a scale of 1 to 10, andwe're always looking for stocks that
have catalysts. Either they have atechnical catalyst or they have a news
catalyst. This has a news catalyst,right? This has a negative news
catalyst, right? On a scale of 1 to 10,how would you grade this in terms of
negativity? 10 being super negativeuh for a news catalyst.
What would you say? I would say nine.That's what would you say? I was saying
nine. Yeah. What would you say? At leasta nine. Yeah. At least a nine with the
at least a nine. And when you getsomething with this negative a news
catalyst,What's it going to do? I'm struggling
with this because if I'm the only smartperson in the room and everybody around
me is stupid and buying this, I'm wrong.Certainly. And then if that were the
case, you would get stopped out or you'dhave a system where you would exit
because you notice that the stock's notgoing down anymore. So it doesn't mean
I'm not suggesting you get short and youdon't do anything. Yeah, I'm suggesting
when you have such a negative newscatalyst, you've got to turn on your
trade to hold hat. Mhm. All right. Wehad I won't mention his name because he
likes to be really secret and he toldyou guys the only place that he comes to
talk is here. Um but don't tell anyone.Remember we had we had a very large prop
firm owner here who doesn't like to benamed who we will not name. and he said
that there's a difference betweenscalping, which his firm does a lot of,
and then you got to turn on yourtrade to hold hat
for certain trades, and and not scalpit. That doesn't mean in a trade to
hold, if you're sitting there, you'relike, I think it's going to go down. I
get it in a good spot and it's not goingdown, and it's not going down. It's not
going down, it's not going down, thatyou you don't get out because that would
be part of your system. But what it doesmean is that
this is something to try and capture anintraday trend on at a minimum.
That that that is the focus for becauseyou're not going to get I think this is
like a nine and a half out of 10 interms of a negative news catalyst.
You're not going to get that a lot.What? So I think you got it and I how
you know if you're a if you're at a bighedge fund or a big institution, how
long does it take for them to startselling out of their position? Very
quickly. Multiple days. Multiple days,right?
Yeah. It's going to take them days. Andthey've got a lot. It's going to take
them days to get out of this thing. So II think you got to I think you got to
find a spot to short this thing and letit run. Give it a run. And if it doesn't
work, that's fine. But this is just nota this is not this is not a scout. Yeah.
And and the plays that we just studiedwith Garrett too, like this opening
drive has these blowoffs and they've allturned into
trend trades. Yeah. So to speak withthese when they gap out of the range and
blow off. Yeah. So just a pattern. It'sjust too negative a news catalyst not to
let it run. Yeah. So I have a questionlike what would your entry be on this
with the knowledge you have and you youhave this price action on the open.
Would you short it against the high? Iwould have shorted it. Uh, and I don't
mean to like So, I didn't make I didn'tmake this trade. Yeah. Um, so I want to
be clear about this, but based on whatyou guys told me, I would have shorted
it hereand I would I would have I would have
set a stop above here. That's and givenit give it a run. Okay. Um, I would have
loved the initial up moveright on the open and I would have
totally wanted to use that to myadvantage because to me I'm I'm making a
trade to hold. And so one of my trade toholds is going to be a a a
price discovery right on the open thatuh is unsustainable
and uh an overreaction and counter to mythesis. And I'm going to let it show me
the top and fail and start to go downand short it and cover it above the
high. And I'm going to let it run. AndI'm not going to exit the trade until
I don't think I would have exited thetrade kept the chart. I would have
covered it in a close. I mean, and Idon't mean to be
I I don't mean to be like it's so easyto but that that would have that would
have been one of the trades in myplaybook, right?
Now, those trades are going to have alow win rate, right? Mhm. Um and and and
of those trades, I certainly if it wouldhave broke a trend line, I would have
exited.Uh or if it had gone parabolic to the
downside, I would have exited. Uh or ifit got above EWOP and held above VWOP, I
would have exited. Or if it held above asignificant consolidation area, I would
have exited. But none of those thingshappened.
So it it and it doesn't surprise mebecause of the news
because eventually people figured outwhat you figured out
no matter what the headline number was,right? And that's good that they had a
headline number that could confuse somepeople. But if you actually like you did
read the balance sheet,they they were you smoking mirrors. All
right. Um so all right. I thought thatwas pretty good though for for the trade
management on four to seven. I thinkthat's an eight and a half.
And thenthe last part of this though is it ended
up getting to that month to date VWAPwhich has just been a really common
theme that I've been noticing. Coretoday gets right to the monthto date
VWAP had an epic bounce. Tesla yesterdayto the monthto date VWAP. So there's a
very interesting pattern going on thatI'm observing there. Um so
moving on to the technology here. So weused our trading view to anchor our
VWAPS. We used the year to date. We usedour earnings report uh uh year to excuse
me. We used trading view to anchor ourVWAPS from the year to date from the
earnings report and our prior low andprior high area. Um, we've incorporated
the multi-day DWAPS, the week to date,two-day, and the daily to help us find
our key levels and trend structure toengage um, who's in control of the trend
on on the time frame. We we marked ouraftermarket high, pre-market low,
aftermarket high, and low, pre-markethigh and low areas.
We monitored uh, we're looking for ourvolume, our volume on the blowoff and
volume for confirmation through thethrough our levels. And we made sure we
set our alerts at these key levels at200 at at our um market levels. So four
your entry was what? Four was a openingrange break. Okay. And so when you're
trading live, what you want to be doingduring the trading day is setting alerts
for something like that. So this is likelow of the open, right? Right. So you
would you would have wanted to duringthe trading during the open set an alert
if it gets below the low to alert me,right? And that would have been a that
would have been a really good use oftech. Does that make sense? You're
constantly going to be using andresetting alerts throughout the day to
give yourself signals to enter adsbecause we knew once if we did break
that make lower lows. Did you set analert for low of the day on the open? I
uh No. Okay. That would have been a goodthing. All right. Allright, you guys are new with technology,
so I'm going to punt to give you aneight.
And um we're just we're leaving it offwith the trade review here. So we wrote
we followed the morning game plan thatwe we're favoring the stuff at the 220
level. Our e execution aligned with thelevels and structure. you know, we're
looking for the potential fashion belate from the we're looking for the
stuff, the reversion to the VWAP, thebreakdown from the VWAP to the
pre-market low. And that's where wereally took number four was that opening
range break. Um, and that that's that'swhere the the trade the trend trade
started to hold uh started to reallytake place. So, I just wrote this is
actually one of my one of my best tradesever that I've taken, which was pretty
exciting. Um, we did a gap intoresistance. We we hit it with the
fashionably late into the pre to the lowof day and then we tackled the opening
range break on that break a low a dayand we traded it into the monthto- date
VWOP and really um got to get a lot ofjuice out of this.
So what was really important was to justmake sure we have a clear plan with the
defined levels and risk parameters. Thismakes our execution fluid and decisive.
And it was just important to know thatit was important to know that what type
of trades could potentially set up atkey levels so we could be ready to ready
to take these trades.Okay. So, when you're doing a trade
review, I think one of the things thatpeople leave out
that disappoints me. It's like one ofthe number one things people leave out
is what?What do you think people just
continually leave out in their tradereviews?
How can I get bigger? How can I getbetter? What should I have done better
in this trade? And I thought you weregoing to say that and I'm glad you're
saying that and that isn't the answerthat I'm looking for
profit. What do people people leave out?How do you get better at something? Like
what what's like super important to getbetter at anything you want to become
great at? Repetition. What do you needto what do you need to recognize? Were
you missing? So, so maybe that notinghow much I risked. What do you need to
recognize?Where you went wrong? So, we've we've
had we've had that answer, right? All ofyou have have given me examples of
things you could have done wrong. Okay.How do you get great at something?
And what needs to be in this tradereview?
So, one thing that we talked about wasit was a trade. It was a trend trade and
we didn't make that's how I could startto make this better is starting to
realize the higher time frame view thatwhat type of how do you get good at
something how are you guys going to bepractice seven figure traders is it
going to be us sitting around talkingabout the things that you do poorly the
things that you do really good yeah youyou people make this mistake all the
time you you've got to find out likewhat you did really well you found a
great trade why was it a really greattrade like what did you do to really
find a great trade And there's a clearanswer to that. And what was it?
Looking at the you do something herethat's a great example. People write
books about stuff like this. Okay. It'sa what is it? What did you do really
well? What's the most important thing?We had to set up
reading the report.Okay. And and that that represents what?
Due diligence. What does that represent?So when you have a trade, right,
preparation, when you have a trade,your best trades are going to have
really big catalysts.All right? They're either going to be
news catalysts or they're going to betechnical catalysts. Those are going to
be the best trades. Uh you've seen ustrade circle on the desk and the big
catalyst for that is not news, but what?Overextension. It's an over it's a great
technical setup. In this case it's anoverextension.
You know before that it may there mayhave been it's an overextension. It's an
unusual overextension if you just andyou can go measure that and go take your
Ballinger bands out. You can go you cango put math behind that. It's a complete
overextension that that's a hugecatalyst to be able to trade something
like that. All right. In this caseyou've got a terrific news catalyst. We
said it's a 9.5. Right. I think it was a9.5. We said that's unusual.
The reason why this trade works and whatyou guys did well is you found a stock
with an unusually negative newscatalyst.
That's why it worked.And you want to go find more trades that
have big catalyststhat will allow you to make really good
money. This was a terrific example of anegative news. That's what you did
really well. And so when you do youryour trade review, I want you to say
with our collaboration,we found an unusually negative news
catalystand you want to do more of that because
that works for you guys. Yeah. You donot become a seven figure trader harping
and carping and nitpicking about thelittle things that we can all
we we are all human. We can all pointout our shortcomings.
All right? And and not to suggest youshouldn't do that, but like that's not
how you make a lot of money.You make a lot of money by understanding
that you did that really well. Allright? And so find more trades like
that. And so on your trade review, umwe're going to give you a 7.5 until you
point out the things you do well. But Ithought that was pretty good. Uh
unfortunately, we've got to give you azero on reading the tape because we
don't have that. Um, on your diligence,a nine.
On stock selection, I thought this wasreally good stock selection. Uh, this is
a nine out of 10 in stock selectionbecause of the negative news catalyst.
The one thing I just didn't love aboutthis stock selection was
it would have been better if what?Would have been better if technically
it had been a better setup, too, right?He did have a really good news catalyst,
but it was it was a little bit I don'tknow how the technical system on the
daily. Does that make sense?Um you you'll find better ones. Does
anyone want to add that up? What what dowe get? Who's going to add that up?
76.2.The tape. We got two points on the tape.
This tape.All right. Next time include the tape.
Obviously, you're showing the ability toget uh above an 80 and you did a lot of
things really well. What did you guysthink? I thought it was awesome. I got a
lot of feedback. I learned a lot aboutmy trade and about myself through the
experience through this trade.Uh dis you guys disappointed that that
you you didn't break 80. I'm verydisappointed. I I like to win. I had an
expectation, but it could be we did missthe a key component of the playbook,
which is reading the tape. So, you getwhat you deserve.
Well, it wouldn't be too hard on us. Ithink we made a pretty good job here
since weto be honest um nobody uses the tape
right now for trading. So we thoughtthis was not a key variable to our
success. So we left it out and that wasa mistake.
Next time we're going to do better. Ithink that overall we did a great job.
We just forgot to include the tape whichis easily fixable. And we really what I
think that is maybe the most importantpart is identified a really important
change in fundamentals that peopledidn't really look into. Not everyone
goes to the extent of looking at theactual report and then identifying that
it's a little misleading. That's wherethe hedge funds and big institutions
come in. They see that and they gothrough compliance offload. That's where
you make your money.