We've got a juicy trade to talk about
today and I remember us thinking that is this going to be the best trade of the
year, the biggest trade of the year. Of course, like you're never going to
sell the high. Like no matter what you do, you're never going to sell the high.
It was like every day was an exercise and like don't touch the stock. As it
was going higher, I know that we all really wanted to sell something every
day. Welcome to episode one of the SMB
podcast. I'm Garrett Drainer and I'm here with my trading partner, teammate,
quant, and friend, actually, Tim Belden. Also known as the Colorado whale. That's
absurd. >> We're your hosts.
We're your hosts. We're here with Kurt, who's running things from behind the
curtain. Nothing we do here would be possible without Kurt. So, our goal here
is to create the greatest podcast that ever
existed. So, we may not be there yet, but we can guarantee that we will put in
the work to get that done because that's what we do here at SMB. Each and every
day we put in the work. So, we've got a juicy trade to talk about today, but
first, since this is our very first episode, I
got to start by asking, Tim, what are we doing here? What's What's with this
podcast? I mean, I was put on this earth to study podcasting. Uh majored in
college and it's something I always knew I wanted to do. So, yeah, we don't have any experience
with podcasting, but what we do have is experience on a professional prop
trading desk. You know, we have experience at our happy hours shooting
the breeze, talking about trades. You know, tend to talk a lot about losses.
That's a fun tendency all traders have. But, we've seen a lot of crazy days.
We've seen a lot of just crazy trades come across our desk. Me and Garrett are
always on a call. We're always breaking these trades down, discussing them,
reviewing. So, we thought why not record it and share that with everyone.
Yeah, and I want to make the point like Tim and I are really always on a call
because we're on a team together, we trade together, we develop models
together. We do quant work for that. So, we're always reviewing these trades
together and we go to the happy hours together whenever Tim, of course, is in
town from Colorado. So, we're talking about this kind of stuff
all the time. So, we're going to try to replicate these same types of
conversations, these same types of reviews
here on this podcast. If I don't answer one of my parents' texts and it's too
long, they just assume at this point I'm on the phone with Garrett to give you
guys a glimpse. Uh I can't wait to meet your parents.
>> Oh, at some point you got to. So, Garrett, what trade are we going through
today? All right, so we're going to talk about
the Ethereum 4K breakout. So, this was early August. So,
this was a trade that our team took. A lot of traders on the desk took this
trade. Um I think it was a very good trade and you know, I'd like to first
start out by kind of giving the overview cuz there was a there was a lot of
backdrop to this trade other than just the technicals, right? We'll go over the
chart, we'll talk about the actual setup, how we traded it, what we were
thinking at the time of the trade, how we executed, but there was really a
story developing around Ethereum at this time that
I think we agree that gave this trade some fuel. A juicy story at that.
A huge fundamental driver. Yeah, we don't always get that kind of
fundamental shift in something um at the time of a really good technical
breakout. So, to me that's what made this trade so interesting. So,
Kurt, could you bring up, please, image 00? This is a tweet by Bracco. I hope
I'm pronouncing that right, but nonetheless, shout out Bracco. This was
a great tweet kind of summarizing a lot of what we were talking about
around the trade. So, you know, as he points out, this recent
Ethereum move might be one of the fattest pitches I've ever seen and it
may soon be earning a spot in my Evernote under the category of the most
obvious trades in history and of course, not hindsight because he's
been involved in this trade and he kind of goes on to break down, you know, a
lot of the story that we were also following at the time. So,
so Tim, what is this timeline? Where for you, where did it start? I would say
early June was where we started really paying attention to it. Um right around
when there was rumors that there was a very high, extremely high short
positioning in Ethereum. I would say right around early June.
Okay, so um what like why was there high short
positioning because sometimes we don't have to know, but to
me part of what made this interesting was
that Ethereum Bitcoin pairs trade that'd been going on for a while, right? Like
like that'd been a trade that institutions had
kind of notoriously taken because Bitcoin had outperformed Ethereum for so
long. And if they're going to get long
Bitcoin, they might short another cryptocurrency that underperforms and
that was Ethereum. So, um
that was probably a big part of it. And
you know, I think what was it? Shortly after that, Tom Lee
the Tom Lee story came in, right? What was that? Late June? Yeah.
And that short positioning, that just gets your eyes on the trade where it's
something that, you know, is interesting and it gets us to start watching it
watching, but June 28th was when Tom Lee got appointed as the chairman of BMnR.
And then shortly after that on the 30th, Tom Lee announced the 250 million
private placement to become an Ethereum treasury.
And that's when I would say the fireworks started with this overall
Ethereum trade. The stock was up 4,000 in 4 days, 4,000% I should say. Um we
have seen this similarly done with Bitcoin treasuries. Um the most um known
one is MSTR. Um and this really was big because of Tom Lee. Um his overall
career he's had in the industry, he's one of the best um analysts out there.
Um and he's making a statement with 250 million. Um so, this opens the door for
other companies to start becoming Ethereum treasuries as well. Uh the main
idea behind these is that they try to raise money to buy Ethereum.
And um we started to see more and more of
those Ethereum treasuries start to emerge. There's ASBET, BGLC,
BTBT, GAME, BTCT, just to name a few. All right, so this started to snowball a
little bit. Kurt, could we please bring up image number five?
I want to bring up this BMnR chart just because it's insane.
Like we can kind of see the run it had when this started. It's pretty obvious
there on the chart. Oh, yeah. >> Um those big green candles.
So, this was obviously getting a very
positive reaction. There was a lot of hype around this. I think there were
other reasons why there was hype around this, which we'll get into. Um but yeah,
I mean, we had the the BMnR treasury and then a lot of
other treasuries started to follow. Obviously,
huge initial reaction from BMnR there. Um
meanwhile, you know, we're kind of looking at the the technicals of these
plays. I mean, massive what was it? Like a four-year base in
Ethereum. Image number one, please, Kurt. And this will just highlight kind
of the big picture that we're looking at in Ethereum. And look, I mean, it still
hasn't broken this 5K level. So, it remains to be seen if this will
actually break out, but it's been going sideways for a long time. You know, and
I love these kinds of charts cuz it's it's building up tons of energy. You
know, this is a monthly chart, so very zoomed out, but just to demonstrate um
really how long it's gone nowhere. It still never broke out with a with
Bitcoin, you know, breaking out to all-time highs, but that's the sort of
chart that gets us very excited. It doesn't mean that there's a trade yet,
but that's the sort of technical chart that you want to see for a massive base.
So, we're talking about the 4K breakout. Obviously, the the the high of that
range is 5K, like I said. I mean, that still hasn't broken. Um but we did
we did think that maybe, you know, with all of this news and a good technical
setup at 4K that there was a possibility of our trade
kind of carrying through that 5K. It didn't. Um and we'll talk about how we
managed that, but that was that was in the back of our minds, wasn't it? Like
should we we we should try to hold this the best we can and
and get out the best we can if if the trade stops working.
Um so, in early July, the Ethereum chart
consolidates, gets really tight. So, let's bring up that Ethereum daily.
You know, that that first yellow box
is where this story begins. That was when uh the BMnR
um treasury stuff started to kick off, right? It it it really surged volume
into the stock out of that consolidation after a little shakeout.
>> And that was the Bitcoin breakout as well in early July.
>> You're right. Yeah. That Bitcoin broke out as well. Crowded one.
Keep going. Well, the like the funny thing about the Bitcoin breakout to me
was like we all traded that and it was a great technical breakout. And when it
was kind of over, we looked it over our shoulders and saw the relative strength
in ETH and we're like we're like that was actually an Ethereum
breakout. >> the one to play all along. That was the
actual play to make. Um so, that surged the stock, big volume.
And then kind of consolidates for another month or so and that's that blue
box and that's the trade we were looking at, right? So, we're kind of looking at
the bull flag of that initial move. Um goes sideways,
consolidates its gains, really sets up for a nice break of that 4K.
And so we started looking at this chart um
pretty pretty aggressively like every day like
before we were even doing anything as we started to see it kind of pull back,
consolidate. Like we got more and more interested. So,
there's this Bitcoin there's an ETH Bitcoin ratio
chart that I want to show. This just kind of shows you how much
Yeah, look at that. Ethereum had underperformed Bitcoin for so long and
it shows you that turn at the right side of the chart in 2025.
Um kind of starting in July, maybe a little bit before it. A little right
side of the V as Lance says. Yeah, the Yeah, so that's that's the
relative strength um personified there in this ratio chart
that really occurred on that Bitcoin breakout.
And so, if we were to kind of continue this timeline as we're watching this
trade, we had more news come in around Ethereum
that I think stoked the fire. So, July 15th Peter Thiel
takes a stake in BMNR or at least that was announced. July
22nd Cathie Woods announced takes stake in BMNR.
Um late July Tom Lee held an investor presentation where he discussed what he
calls the alchemy of 5% and that's basically Bitmain's strategy to
accumulate 5% of the total supply of Ethereum as part of the treasury plan.
You can say he's crazy, but that's a lot of Ethereum.
It's a lot of Ethereum. Um
you know, in mid mid-August Ethereum treasury firms had collectively
acquired, you know, apparently around 17 billion dollars worth of ether. Right,
so let's talk about the stable coins cuz
this is really the final piece of the puzzle before we go into the the trade.
So, all during this time what was going on with stable coins, Tim, and why is
this important? Yeah, so this was a a buzzword that started coming up more and
more this year. There was a couple significant uh headlines I would say and
uh reason why uh it was getting talked about a ton. One of the
most important and significant was ones was the recent IPO Circle
um which they issue stable coins um that
IPO'd in early June and then went on to make a 300%
a little greater than a 300% move. We had Walmart and Amazon um come out
and say they're exploring stable coins. Robinhood wants to tokenize private
companies. JPM's getting involved in stable coins. Overall it just feels kind
of everyone's getting involved in stable coins. So, why why do stable coins
matter to Ethereum? So, stable coins account for
up to 40% of all blockchain transaction fees
and Ethereum hosts half of them. So, most of these tokens and stable coins
are built on the Ethereum blockchain. So, overall the growth in stable coins
will lead to um and could be a catalyst for greater Ethereum adoption.
Right, cuz it it it's sort of a proof of concept thing, right? Cuz for years, you
know, we've been talking about Ethereum. Like everyone remembers the NFTs
and it's been known as, you know, a crypto that has utility
and that's been kind of the interesting part about it, but I think that people
have questioned like how useful is this utility and this was sort of the first
moment where this utility was very legitimized.
Right, beyond something like an NFT. Like I I remember walking around
Brooklyn Yeah. around the the NFT craze and you'd go into coffee shops and
they'd have NFT artwork in frames on the walls like
instead of like their normal stuff and it's funny cuz that's gone now.
That's insane. That's one of those I wish I was there moments. Yeah, and in
Brooklyn. How Brooklyn is that, too? Oh, the most Brooklyn.
Yeah. Um all right, so so back to the trade.
So, we've got this checklist. So, a lot of times when we're setting up a trade
like this, like we're going to talk about these catalysts. We're going to
think about what this might mean, you know, to create some sort of a tailwind
in the trade. Not all trades have this, right? Like
Tesla breakout, what was it last week? Yeah. Um that we traded. We were talking
about how it doesn't really have a catalyst, right? Tesla can sometimes be
its own catalyst and that's fine and it's a great technical breakout and
we're just looking at volume. But if we can find one of these really big
breakout trades that actually has a tailwind behind it, then it can really
add to the trade. So, as we go through this, we're kind of
thinking about what do we have in our favor, right? We've got
long-term negative sentiment on Ethereum. So, not only is this a
positive catalyst, but it's a big shift from how people had been thinking about
it before. We've got that short positioning that we
talked about. We've got that really clean
long-term technical base that you know a lot of people are looking at. And then
you have that tight one-month compression on the daily chart, which is
really important to our trade because essentially that's the breakout that
we're talking about at 4K. You've got all these Ethereum treasuries emerging,
which are acting well in the market. You've got the stablecoin adoption,
which has implications for Ethereum. You've even got a pro-crypto
administration, which I don't even know if it matters anymore at this point
because that's old news, but you do have that and you've got Bitcoin trading at
all-time highs. You've got a risk-on appetite in the market. You've got a
bull market. So, all of these things are sort of behind
us in the trade. Not always you have a checklist like
that, a very long checklist of checks in favor that all are tailwind. And at the
end of the day uh the Ethereum treasuries, people are buying Ethereum
and they're doing it fast in a very big way shown by BMNR and Tom Lee. All
right, so we're looking at this 4K level.
Like what do we do about this, right? We like we like the trade. We like this
asset class. We we think, okay, it breaks on volume, it should go higher.
Um maybe it breaks 5K. Maybe this is the
beginning of that, right? Like I said it still hasn't um
We've got a massive theme, catalyst, narrative. Um will this be one
of those big breakouts of the year? So, And I remember us thinking that. Is this
going to be the best trade of the year, the biggest trade of the year?
And it had the recipe. Yeah, we don't always think about that
and um you know, it makes me think we probably
should have been twice as big, but Yeah, and that's why you're a viewer. That's
always how it feels. Here's the Ethereum chart and that blue
box is our trade. So, we're looking at this level and that that first that
lower blue line, Tim, like that's generally the 4K level, right? Yes. And
that kind that level goes back further on the daily chart. Like that was a that
was a major swing high and it happened to be basically the top of this
consolidation. And so, as this goes sideways and
tightens up, we're looking for a break of this level, but we're trading ETHA,
right? Because that's that's the ETF. We're trading equities here on the desk.
So, that's what we're going to use to express this trade. So, the chart looks
a little bit different because it doesn't trade 24/7, but Kurt, if you
could please bring up image number six,
we can see that chart of ETHA. And so, the last two days there, this is a daily
chart, were the days that we were entering the trade.
And the last day there is the day that it finally closed above 4K. And I think
what was the price on ETHA? Was it like 30 3040 or something like that?
Tim? Yes. All right, so what are we thinking at this point? I mean, we'll
zoom in to some shorter time frames to kind of get into it, but like at this
point, Tim, like what do we what do we want to see in order to get long?
And this is where the game planning gets very specific. Where you have a trade,
you have your level, um but that doesn't necessarily mean you just want to buy
above that level. So, first off,
we get the gap up. We get a big gap up in ETHA near the top
of the range. What it's done in the past is that it's failed at the top of the
range. So, one first thing we're looking for on that day one um so, before the
close above 4K, is we're looking to see how that holds that gap.
Cuz that's it hasn't broken out yet. So, we want to be able to see it hold
higher. We're thinking it's There it looks like there was a failed breakdown
um probably six days prior. And that failed breakdown reclaims and
then gaps up and holds at the top of the range.
Um so, we're thinking it's turning back up. It hasn't broken out yet, but if
this holds, then there's a good chance that, you know, this can continue and of
course like you finally get that close above 4K. Like that's that's really
exactly what we're looking for to put on the complete risk in the trade. And that
failed breakdown is a good thing to mention where one big factor to this
trade is that you have to remember is it is a cryptocurrency and sometimes the
price action could be a little funky and more difficult like Bitcoin and Ethereum
love to close at week, have a failed breakdown, and then gap up. And you kind
of saw that with this Ethereum leading into our trade.
Um one aspect that we do know from seeing
past Bitcoin trades and just breakout trades is that we really do want to see
see momentum above resistance. And that was one uh factor that we were
really keying in on that Thursday and Friday. We got some pretty orderly price
action into this breakout, which allowed us
to accumulate the size and we got that really good close, which allowed us to
hold it overnight. So, that was great. And we'll show those lower time frames
in a second. But
Tim was like, was there anything that made this difficult? Because I mean,
we're talking about what a clean, you know, great trade this was.
But, you know, there's all something I noticed, like even on the best trades,
there's always something in the back of my mind saying, like I wish it had this,
or I wish this was part of the trade, like I'm worried about this aspect, like
was there anything that that this didn't have or that was like a red flag or that
made us kind of question whether this was going to work or not?
I'm glad you're bringing that up, Garrett, cuz I remember this one
specifically in that Thursday and Friday. If you just looked at the chart,
you would have thought we just, you know, bought it and just went back to
bed. We were on a call the entire day discussing how we were going to manage
this trade, how we were going to get the size in this trade.
And the one aspect that comes to mind is the volume.
So, on Thursday, you get your gap up, it holds, doesn't do anything special, but
it does hold higher. And then on the next day, on Friday, we
do get the breakout above our resistance level.
And the entire day, we really wanted to have a see-it moment where you saw the
momentum on the tape, you saw insane volume come in, and it closes at high
highs, and we didn't ever really get that see-it moment in a big way, I would
say. What would you say?
>> something Bella talks about all the time, right? The see-it moment. Like,
and it's true. It's we want that as traders. Like, we want And first of all,
I mean, no one's ever going to just roll out the red carpet for us and say, "Hey,
like now it's safe to buy." Yeah. Go for it. Like There's your alert level.
>> to be Yeah, there's always going to be some question marks, you know,
do do we have the right stop? Um is this confirmed? You know, and we're
constantly recalculating the EV in our head saying, "Okay, like is this trade
getting better or worse as the day is developing?" And so, one of those things
that can make the trade so much better is if tons of volume either comes in
above a level or just in general, right? There might be an inflection intraday on
the chart. And this happened on the Bitcoin breakout that we talked about.
>> huge volume came in out of nowhere and Bitcoin just shot up. And when something
like that happens, that becomes a big inflection because you are able to
see that buying. And you're you're saying to yourself, "Well, it shouldn't
get back to where the volume came at." Like, that's that's now the level.
Right? And if you don't get that volume, you're really just kind of going off of
price action and swing highs and swing lows and you know, I hope that this
close is is a meaningful close, right? But
it was doing RVOL, meaning relative volume, like higher than average volume.
You can see that on the chart. Like, those last 2 days like had pretty good
volume. So, overall, the volume was good, but there was no moment intraday
where volume came rushing in and said, "Hey,
like it's game time." Um so, we were we were using some
strategies that we use in order to accumulate a position that we'll talk
about, you know, using various algorithms to sort of get size over time
as long as it's holding up. And that really helped us get the size in the
trade because there was no see-it moment, perhaps other than just
literally the close. Like, we got the close that we wanted, which was above 4K
going into the weekend. And that was significant.
We might want to even slow down for a sec cuz I think it's important to
mention, too, there's a lot of different ways to play this.
So, when we're discussing Thursday and Friday, we had a specific trade in mind
and we're taking it as a higher time frame weekly breakout trade
driven by a fundamental catalyst. Um this is a trade we're looking to
hold. Um but that's not to say also there is a bunch of guys on our desk
trading it in different ways, momentum trading it, taking the overnight on
Friday. Um so, on those 2 days,
um really specifying what time frame you're
trading it on and what the trade you're taking is crucial.
Right. So, we had we bought some calls that went 2 weeks out. Yep. And that was
a momentum portion of our trade. Could have gone
could have bought weeklies. I think we went 2 weeks out. And then we bought
stock. And stock was the main portion of our trade in ETAJ.
We were thinking of this as a swing trade cuz like I said, we thought that
this would get legs if it did break out of this level, maybe even cut through
5K. Like, that was our best case scenario. It didn't do that.
And we kind of had to manage that situation when it comes into resistance
and there are some decisions to make. So, we saw this as a swing trade.
A lot of the guys on the desk and gals
at this point, saw this as
an overnight. Like, a one-day like we got the close above 4K, it should gap
up. I'm going to buy some weekly calls or I'm going to buy some stock. If we
get a big move off of this breakout, I'm just going to kick it out the next day.
And going into the weekend. Definitely. Right. Going Yeah, going into the
weekend and you know, that's a that's a completely valid way
to trade this. And in fact, we had to have that discussion on our team, right?
Because, you know, we're used to kicking some
out. >> Um on a big gap like that. And because
of the backdrop that we laid out in the beginning
tonight, you know, the the entire catalyst that was behind this,
we really felt that this was actually worth trying to hold the size and really
try to swing the size. And because that was
perhaps not the thing that we always do, right?
Because every trade is different and some of some of these daily breakouts
like don't have that kind of backdrop, you are going to kick more out like
right away, kind of cover your risk, maybe swing a smaller size. But, we
actually had this discussion. There was a little bit of debate on the team.
And we came to the conclusion that we were going to
hold, right? So, it became every day kind of like, "Don't sell the stock.
Don't sell the stock. Don't sell the stock." And then all of a sudden, it was
like, "Sell the stock." >> Yeah.
Which was um you know, a pretty pretty good
experience to have like that form of this trade kind of under our belt as a
team, I would say, because I think typically we've we've played it a little
bit more momentum-minded. We definitely have in the past.
And this type of catalyst, yeah, changes a lot in terms of having this big of a
theme. But, before we even dive into what we
did come that Monday cuz that was a very fun day for us.
Uh Garrett, what do you think? Should we show them the intraday chart? The
Thursday, Friday. Let's talk about the execution a little bit. So,
the day before it closed above 4K and then the day that it closed above
4K. So, Kurt, if you could please bring up image number seven. So, this is a
15-minute chart of 2 days of price action. It includes the premarket and
the after hours. So, we started getting into it on Thursday,
which is the first day here. So, that was the gap up, right, Tim? And you
know, at this point, you know, we're not sure it's breaking out. It's acting
extremely well. So, for us, this would be
anticipatory size. You know, we're thinking
we're starting to really see what we want to see. We want to get involved. Um
this looks like it's on its way to breaking out, turning back up after a
failed breakdown. But, it's not really the area where we
want to just like lever up the trade, right? Because it has it kind of has
some work to do. Exactly. And there's not an intraday
spot. Yeah. Yeah. So, like how did we attack this? So, what we use is um we
have a couple custom scripts that we built. One of them acts as a TWAP um
type of script, um which is really good for days like this Thursday where you
want to see it hold, you don't want to get size at any one specific you don't
have an intraday setup uh where you expect the EV of the trade to really
expand drastically. So, you want to just get filled as long as it's holding up,
as long as it's doing what it should do. So, we started the TWAP in the morning
of that day and built our initial anticipatory position throughout the day
as long as it continued to hold up. What's cool about that, too, is if it
fails, um you would stop getting size based on
how you kind of design that algo. Um but that's yeah, that's how we went
about it on that Thursday. Yeah, and and like I mean, talking to
some of the the bigger traders on the desk,
you know, one in particular comes to mind.
You know, there are multiple ways to do this.
And I know that, you know, some traders were just waiting for that close above
4K. Exactly. You don't you know, you don't
have to be building a position like this. Like, we
tend to do it if we think we're really seeing it well.
Um but some traders were just like, "Yeah,
great. This is this looks amazing. Like, we get that close above 4K, I'm buying."
And and that's literally what they did. They just waited and they didn't they
didn't do anything else. And of course, you know, you do that, you have the
ultimate confirmation or at least the most you're going to get in this trade.
And you might not have as good of a price, but you're not sort of taking the
risk that you're anticipating some and that it might fail and you know, getting
tangled up in all of that kind of stuff. So,
we took it overnight cuz it closed well cuz that's a criteria for us. Like if
we're going to if we're going to build into a position like that, like we
needed it to close well. So, it closed at highs,
right? And this this yellow line was sort of an intermediate-term important
level on the chart. Um broke out overnight above that level,
kind of held it in the morning. And we open up on Friday and we get a
ramp into that 4K level right off the open.
>> Big ramp right into it. And I remember I remember we were kind
of we were watching this and it looked a little bit too steep a little bit too
early to be doing anything. Um and we it was
good volume, but it was a pretty big move into it without
breaking it. And I think like one of my Yeah. mistakes I've made in the past,
you know, so often is you're just kind of buying the high there like after you
see that. Um and then I just and then just eat it on the pullback and then
you're upside down on the trade. I think we did a pretty good job of being
patient there. >> We nibbled a little.
Um but you're right. It's one of the harder things because it looks like it's
going to break out. You have to get involved.
Um but this is why we draw that big pink line, isn't it? It never got above.
We call it the big pink line in all of our breakouts. It's the
big pink >> Make sure it's bold, too. Yeah, so you
know, you kind of see it build there a little bit
and you're thinking, okay, like ultimately
like yeah, this might this might break out now.
You know, worst case scenario again, worst case scenario we buy the close. If
it closes above 4K, like I said, I've even
there's still tremendous risk reward on this trade. We're talking about a higher
time frame. Um we're not going to worry about a few
ticks, a few cents, but we really want to be
paying attention to the price action so that we can put ourselves in the best
position possible. So, I think at this point we're thinking, okay, like if it
does pull back, >> where should it hold?
Yes. And kind of start imagining what that pullback might look like and where
we might want to be buying and sort of at this point in the trade, where would
we be risking against? And so, at this point, Tim, I believe we put in
bids. Yes. Ba- based on the idea that like here's where we're wrong, here's
where we want to have a certain amount of size. And I believe, you know, the
lower the price, the bigger the bids were.
And you know, we have an algo that does this.
Um and we had an idea of where we were wrong at this point in the trade and
this was kind of our way of saying, okay, you know what? We're seeing what
we want to see. It's working in our favor.
Um it looks like there's a really good chance we might get that close above 4K
if it makes a new high today. Let's continue building a position and
if it closes above, we'll take it overnight.
Exactly. >> so let let's zoom in on that day, Kurt,
if you could please bring up image number eight. So, here's a
here's an intraday chart of that day. And just so we can see where VWAP is. I
know a lot of traders look at VWAP. We always have intraday VWAP on our charts.
And you can see the ramp. Big volume into 4K fails,
comes down hard, you know, and that's where we kind of started to have bids
in. And you know, a lot of times there's a
shakeout like that. Like we can see that shakeout below VWAP. We were sort of
expecting something like that. I mean, it's it's never fun, but we're thinking
in a much more zoomed out broad way in terms of where this needs to hold. So,
you know, we were we were still bidding in there. I almost want to stop for a
second to talk about that stop placement combo a little bit deeper because that
does really drive it where after the opening drive, that's still too early
for us to raise our stop to today's low. Because it hasn't meaningfully broke out
above 4K. Um with Ethereum. So, when we're
designing that script to bid in, we're playing that wider, also.
Versus previous days' levels. Yep.
And like you said, kind of expecting a flush or any difficult price action
because it is it's crypto. Likes to do it.
>> And yeah, and it hasn't broken out yet. So,
um you know, we're still trying to stay, you know, patient with our executions.
So, it it drops below VWAP and immediately
reclaims. So, Tim, I know that's a that's a pattern we look at. Like as
intraday traders, and I know this is not an intraday trade, but I still think
that sometimes you can utilize those skills to kind of identify moments
where, you know, we might be able to see
something in the trade, right? So, when you get a failure like that below
VWAP and it immediately reclaims and starts holding VWAP and starts holding
the level that it failed from, that can often be a really good intraday
trade in some situations, like in some stocks, especially like low floats,
right? >> 100%. And looking at the volume, too.
Look at that pickup in volume on the capitulation.
That's a pattern that kind of shows for a second that and it doesn't always
work, but it's like, hey, I think I think we've kind of seen what the
sellers are able to do. You know, that's like that's what's
going through my mind is like, okay, we we might have just seen the worst cuz
this just totally reclaimed. You can kind of draw a trend line there. It
starts holding and then it starts breaking up and some volume comes in.
And this is where Yes. like we were talking about earlier, like I wish like
I wish there was twice as much >> three times as much volume that came in
there on that move like into 4K, through 4K. That would have made me feel much
more confident in this trade going into the weekend. But we did have a pickup in
volume. And so, at this point we changed our approach, right? We're thinking,
okay, I don't think Right? Didn't we take the bids out?
We're like, I think that's it Yeah. for like our passive buys. Like now it's
turning up. Like it's getting closer to the close. Like this is our shot. Like I
think as a kind of an intraday
moment, this looks like it has a shot of taking
out the highs at this point. So, we started buying.
How did we do it? Do we turn the TWAP on again? We bought
some through the level and then I remember that was expe- especially when
we were like, all right, let's see if we get an expansion in price, expansion in
volume. And you can kind of see based on these candles once it does break
through, that you really only get like a grind up. So, that's when we started the
TWAP. And
the big decision there was how much risk to put on it and how much do we want to
have in our position, our stock position by the close. And we were kind of using
the volume coming in as a way of being able to add risk if it continued to come
in in a big way. And we really, like we said, it was difficult. You didn't get
that. We get the close above 4K. We add we manually add cuz that's really
the trade that we could have waited for, right? So, we we did a good job of sort
of building this position, but at the close we need to make a decision like
how much risk are we putting on this trade cuz now here's the trade. Like
we're going into the weekend above 4K. You know, we want to be long the stock
that we're going to be long for this um opportunity and then add the calls,
all right? If we if we want to add calls. So, this is kind of where we top
call the top off. You top everything off to the point of
here's the risk we're putting on the trade. Anything that we don't have,
we're going to have by close. And took it overnight.
Um Exactly. And that was a that was a fun day.
Remember it like it was yesterday. Yeah, I mean, it was it
And at this point, I mean, like I were you confident going in over the I mean,
I knew this was a great trade, but I'm still like I anything could happen over
the weekend, right? Cuz especially cuz it's not like crazy volume came in. And
it's not like we're looking at volume just as a coincidence.
The reason it gets us skeptical is we've seen so many failed breakouts
that close above a level, but if you don't have the R vol and the volume
behind it, they're just more susceptible to time and time again. So, there's
certain caution that is justified. I just want to show how the trade played
out. So, this is a 15-minute chart of pretty much the entire course of the
trade until we got out. So, you can see that you can see the massive gap pulled
in into the open um and then ramped again. So, you know,
you do have an option early in the morning if you get up,
you can take some off. Um
like I said, we were trying to do our best to hold to the at this point and we
had a conversation on the team again. Um
I think you can you can see this in two ways, right? There's nothing wrong with
taking your trade if this is if this is your trade.
I think we saw this as confirmation that our breakout was working. So, Yes. that
was our cue to hold the position. And we did take the
calls off, I think on this day. Yes. Took the calls off.
>> to kind of generate the cash flow from the nice gap, the IV expansion.
Um and now, you know, we've got our stop below that Friday low.
Um and you know, at this point it probably shouldn't get back below 4K.
And we're swinging it. So, it's interesting that
it went sideways essentially over the weekend
into Monday and then all Monday night and all Monday morning. So, that was a
mini consolidation, especially because, you know, what's going through my mind
is like Ethereum and these cryptos trade all night. Exactly.
>> So, unlike a stock, you can actually get a pretty long sideways consolidation
over the course of like one actual trading day.
And then it breaks out again. And so,
you know, it had a nice run, and it's interesting cuz it looks so different on
the daily chart. Um It really does. >> percent.
Here, I think let's let's talk more about that
conversation we had in the morning that day. So, what were the two like kind of
schools of thought between our team when deciding whether to hold or whether to
lighten up and take advantage of this gap.
Yeah, I mean, like I said, I we're we're used to
kicking some out. I mean, that's that's standard
procedure, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. Like No. I
would say more often than not, that's the right thing to do. Right? On a
normal breakout, you get that huge gap in your favor.
Um you get that momentum. Like it might be an opening drive if it happens in
your day, it might be a big gap up if it happens like this.
Um but, you know, you might have a portion of that trade that's designated
weekly calls or something shorter dated, or maybe a portion of the stock that
you're thinking of as momentum. And you kind of want to bank on like a
very big move in your favor before you decide to get down to
like that piece that you want to swing with a wider stop. So,
>> Yes. I think that the debate that we were having was that
it was like doing what we're used to doing versus doing what this trade was
calling for. And I think it was a discussion that
actually made us a lot better because we sort of were able to after this trade
break up our playbook into like sub playbooks and say,
"Okay, like these trades we want to kick some out on momentum,
and maybe even a lot. And these trades are trades to hold, and we really want
to try to swing size." And I think that the difference is
the fundamental backdrop that we had in this trade,
the way it broke out over the weekend to give us the confirmation that this was
working and where we thought this could go.
And I mean, we thought maybe it breaks 5K. It didn't. Basically stopped right
there, right below it. Um but, we we chose to do that. Ended up being the
right thing. Um I think all that debate was really
healthy for the team. What do you think? I think you put it great, and I think
that really is one of the benefits of trading with a team. I know SMB we're
big on doing that, but that morning we had um a couple different opinions, and
we know who I'm talking about, but we had one guy on the team who fully
understands this fundamental catalyst, and he's pounding the table that this is
day one of a massive weekly breakout. And I remember that's what really stuck
with me. Is it's just day one.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean, you were you were seeing that too, and and I was thinking
like I was initially on the other side. I was like,
"Yeah, we're we should kick some out like we always do. Like this is a huge
gap, you know, we're up a bunch. You know, what are we doing here?" The more
we talked about it, like you saw it, like I was I was kind of the one that
that broke the tie because I like totally pivoted and was like, "Actually,
no, you guys are right. Like this is this is a rare opportunity, and
this is all this is is confirmation that our trade's working. Right? This is like
the first bar of the breakout. So, you know, we need to do our best
to hold the size." And that's that's what we ended up
doing. You were turning the tide there. And just to emphasize, too, like as
we're trying to get a glimpse into the trading desk,
we're saying the word debate uh specifically for a reason where it does
become a debate. Um healthy one in that, but we are really pounding the table
trying to manage the trade as best as we see fit, and then you're coming to a
middle ground as we call it the equilibrium point, really. Yeah, and
then you're kind of using that in the review process to create better criteria
for the next trade. So, it's like building
nuances. So, all these trades have their own nuances, and you're learning from
each one. And you're trying to solidify these
decisions so that, you know, next time we come to this crossroads,
we have a much better idea of exactly what we're doing as a team, you know,
before it happens. Like these debates are inevitable. Like Exactly.
>> different people, we're all managing account, everyone has slightly different
views. That's a strength of numbers because everyone has valid views, and
we're just trying to weigh them and learn from them, but
so, these debates are going to happen. Um
but I think that the other side of it is that in the end, we have a big review
where we kind of talk about what all this meant for us, how we like to
handle these types of nuances in the future so that we're better
the next time we come to a situation like this.
Get better every day. But exactly, you're trying to build the nuances to
each of these trades. And what you'll get from this podcast is
there's a lot of nuances. Yeah, I hope so. I mean, not in my
brain, but and maybe in your brain. Yeah, we'll
we'll dive into it later. Um Kirk, can you please bring image
number 10 up? So, this is the daily chart of ETH. So, this is the trade. So,
1 2 3 4, four days up, and then a turn. And that's where we trailed out. So,
you know, you you can't see it cuz it's not an Ethereum chart, but it almost
made it to 5K. And the single most interesting part about
this trade for me was that
from our experience, it became an exercise in holding because
if you look at this chart, like there was no reason to sell. Like every day
was higher. If you were trailing it on a daily bar trail, like you wouldn't have
been out. If you're using some EMA, you wouldn't have been out. Like there was
there was If you're looking for a reason to get out of the trade, there was no
reason other than price targets, right? So, I always say there's like three ways
to get out of a trade. You can sell into strength, right? Which would be the
example of like kicking some out. Um you could do that on any of these days.
You can choose a price target and say, "Okay, if it gets here, like I'm going
to sell a certain amount." Or you can let the market tell you when to get out.
So, that would be assessing the price action, looking for
when it turns, when does the tape change,
using a trailing stop, right? Like waiting for that
market to change. And if you were truly waiting for the market to change, there
was literally no reason to get out until perhaps you get that break of the prior
bar, which is where we got out.
Um but, what was so interesting to me was
it was like every day was an exercise in like don't touch the stock. Like
as it was going higher, I know that we all really wanted to sell
something like every day. And we we were just trying to stay in
line with the plan. Just being human, too, you're looking at
it go up every day, and you do start thinking, you know, what if this pulls
back? What if it's it? But I like how you laid it out where there were no
reasons to sell. And then the conversation also that
we're having throughout this trade is how are we raising our stop? Right. And
like, I mean, we really wanted to see some sign of weakness because we hadn't
seen literally any. And so, it felt like
there was a desire to sell into strength because it was kind of straight up, but
we were looking for a part prior bar break, or in this case like a gap down,
a break of that prior bar. It did trade back up to the highs and try to reclaim,
and it couldn't and failed and kind of closed like towards the low of that
candle. And that was that was enough for us to see
that, "Okay, like this is this is different.
This is our exit." And I was I was talking to the other Kirk, not our
Kirk here, but on the desk today about how we were
talking about getting out of trades. And like he was making the classic
Kirk comment about of course, like you're never going to sell the high.
Like no matter what you do, you're never going to sell the high. We were talking
about the Tesla breakout like last week cuz we both sold early, and then we were
talking about this about how we we didn't sell that that top, but we sold
when it came off the lows. And he's just like, "Yeah, like you're either going to
sell into strength and sell too early, or if you wait for the market to to tell
you to get out, you're going to sell late off the highs, and, you know,
rarely do we ever just nail the high." Like I can't remember the last time I
did that. That sounds like Kirk, wise with words. Yeah. So, you know, it's
like it's just one of those things like I try to remember is that like on a
trade like this, like the goal is not to try to be perfect. You know, you're just
you're just trying to, you know, best express like your view of the trade, and
I think, you know, of course, we were up a lot more when it
was trading at that high, and I think there were signs. Like if you go back
and review, it was kind of churning on that day. It
was the highest volume day of the entire move as you can see.
>> thinking that, too. Yeah. It was tremendous volume on that day.
Intraday, which, you know, I don't think we have a slide for this, but it kept
making new highs without going higher. Kept making new highs without going
higher. And just kind of grinding and churning
volume, and, you know, after like 1 2 3, like four gaps in a row,
there was probably some evidence that like this would be a great place to take
a scale, and I don't think it would have been wrong if we were to do that, but we
were so in that mode of like let it work that I think the same muscle that we
were flexing up there at the high to not sell was the same muscle we were flexing
the entire way to even like get us there. So, it's very hard to hold really
well, and then have the mental flexibility to actually like
kind of just like then just get out. Like before the market tells you to.
And that was a big switch from our management. I do remember, I like to say
it was on day four is when we started selling calls against our stock position
as well. Yeah. As a way of taking profits um as
we were trying to hold like you said just the mission was hold this as best
we can. Yeah, absolutely.
>> But I mean the day we did get out um I think it's also it's important to
mention, you know, it did break the prior bar low. Sometimes it is easy to
then start convincing yourself, well, this will you know, turn back up. It'll
hold the pull back. Um but you have to follow the process and that was our
plan. I mean and and and Nick did a great job of pivoting cuz he was the one
pounding the table and don't sell the stock don't and I think the fact that he
pivoted off that you know, really followed that rule of like breaks prior
low. All right, we got to get out. Like you know, I think his leadership was was
key in that. >> Tremendous on this trade. Yeah. Yeah, so
I mean like there like just to kind of zoom out as we kind of wrap this up.
There are a lot of ways to capitalize on this like like trying to hold a
position swing position like that is certainly not the only way to do it. I
don't think that every trade even like warrants like that kind of
management. I think that it was perfectly viable to see that 4K close.
Um imagine you know, the activity that might happen over the weekend, you know,
buy some calls kick it out the next day, you know, play
the momentum even trade it as it's in play. Like
there are many ways to capitalize on this and you know, I I know that people
across the desk traded it like very different. I mean there were other
people that swung this, but um there were a lot of people that really just
like crushed that day one over the weekend like into
into Monday. And I think with this trade too, what's interesting
is that it's still evolving. Where it's still hasn't broken 5K as we
said. Um I think there was an interesting point which I don't know if
we want to dive into too much, but following the trade you got that crazy
Jackson Hole day. Remember that where it just Ethereum was
the leader, went absolutely nuts and this one still still could break out.
Although as we're talking now, it's kind of hanging out at support.
Yeah, it's like back at the 50-day. So we'll see. We'll be tracking it, but
it's you know, there's nothing to do yet, but maybe
maybe someday we'll be talking about that 5K breakout, but
we might have a while before that materializes.
So hopefully hopefully one of these days we can cover a losing trade Tim cuz I
feel like usually what we're talking about at
happy hours is our losing trades. >> Always. It's never this big rip. This
big rip. >> this. Like of course we we just got a a
winning trade together for this day, but you know, cuz it's it's an it's a very
interesting trade which is exactly why we um wanted to talk about this. Um but
you know, hopefully we can in the future get together like some real time trades.
I mean this is the first one we did. We kind of grabbed some from you know, the
recent past, but I'm hoping we can kind of hop on sometimes if something
happens, you know, during the day and talk about it and just kind of keep it
going as we uh as we keep reviewing these things. And if we're talking a
losing trade, we might have to bring some IPAs to that one.
Yeah, for sure. Which we
which we could talk about yesterday cuz we definitely took a took a loss
yesterday, so we might have to bring that one up. That could be a good one.
All right, Garrett, any any closing remarks for the people? What do you
think? >> it. And I will um I'll talk to you
tomorrow morning basically.